[MUSIC] Thomas Kuhn was a detective. He wasn't your ordinary detective. For one thing, he'd gotten his doctorate
in physics from Harvard University. For another,
after he'd gotten his doctorate, he'd done a major mind shift and
morphed to become a historian of science. He held professorships at
the University of California, Berkeley, then at Princeton, and finally at MIT. Kuhn was interested in the process
of how science unfolds. Is it just a steady
accumulation of bits and pieces that gradually build our
understanding of the real world? Or, is it more punctuated? A breakthrough here, a breakthrough there? Interestingly, Kuhn found there's
a lot of what's called normal science. Normal science takes an idea or
approach and fleshes it out to build
our knowledge base. Normal science is like pottering along
with Isaac Newton's theories about how the universe works. Or with the idea that stress
causes gastric ulcers. An idea that virtually every scientist
working in the field took for granted. But every once in a while, what can
be called a paradigm shift happens. Basically someone takes the same
information that everyone else sees, sort of like seeing a duck. See the beak right here? And they interpret it,
they see it in a completely different way. They suddenly see, for example,
that the duck can also be a rabbit. See how the rabbit ears point upwards? So as science unfolds,
there are periods of normal science. Expanding the knowledge base
using normal methodology. Physicists might use Newton's laws to
calculate the motion of the planets. Scientists might work to have a better
understanding of the acidic environment of the stomach. Knowledge expands out in the usual
way as scientists do their work. But, as science is marching placidly along someone comes along who's able to
see things in a brand new way. A paradigm shift. For example, Einstein was able to see
through the usual Newtonian physics, to view the universe in a different,
more relativistic way. And Nobel Prize winner Barry Marshall
famously gave himself an ulcer, along with some very bad breath, by drinking a concoction of
the bacteria Helicobacter pylori. So that he could convince his critics
that it was bacteria, not stress, that was the primary cause of ulcers. So indeed, the scientific process
unfolds with punctuations. Periods of normal science that are then
interrupted by a paradigm shift which shapes how normal science continues to
unfold, until the next paradigm shift. And so on. Paradigm shifts allow us to have enormous new gains in our creative
understanding of the world. So what kind of people
make paradigm shifts? Those kinds of mind shifts that allowed
them to see the world around them in new ways? Kuhn found that there were
two types of mind shifters. One type was young people,
people who hadn't yet been indoctrinated into seeing the world
in the same way that everybody else did. With their youthful eyes,
they can see with fresh perspectives. Now, if you don't qualify as a young
person, you're probably thinking, that knocks me out then! I'm not in my teens or 20s,
so no breakthroughs for me. But hang on. There was a second group of people. People who were older but who were just
as innovative as those young people. These were people who had
switched disciplines or careers. It was the change in focus,
the career switch, that allowed the second older
group to see with fresh eyes. Often, it allowed them to bring
their seemingly unrelated prior knowledge to the table in new
ways that helped them to innovate. These insights from science can also
help us understand creativity and innovation in our everyday lives and
careers. Let's take me. In my late teens and
early 20s, I learned Russian. Then in my late 20s, I decided to
start learning math and science. You might think that my time spent
learning Russian was a waste. It wouldn't help once I switched
my focus to engineering. But that's actually not at all true. Learning Russian gave
me a lot of the insight about the learning process more generally. And I found that learning
insight that I'd gained, transferred to help me be better
in learning math and science. The same repetition,
deliberate practice on the hard stuff, and flexible interleaving that helped
me to successfully learn Russian and helped me to be successful when
I started to begin to learn math and science. We see this phenomenon
constantly in many fields. A background in sports can come
in handy in a marketing career. Insights from a former career
as an event planner can help you be a better software programmer. A hobby playing action-style video games
can actually sharpen your mind and even your eyesight. Head towards the discussion
forum after this video and tell others about the unexpected assets you've brought into your work from your
past seemingly unconnected knowledge. Feel free to also tell others
how you've broken through initial feelings of incompetence on
your way to learning something new. As you post your own thoughts, you'll
be surprised to find the fantastic and inspirational stories of others. Old or young, you may feel like you have
a childlike incompetence when you're learning something new or
you're changing disciplines or careers. This is very typical. But keep in mind that the feelings
of incompetence will gradually pass. The creative power that you can bring to the table because of your willingness
to change can be invaluable. It might even lead you to start
a paradigm shift of your own. [MUSIC]