[MUSIC] In the last video we talked about careers
and skills as being either t-shaped, with only one deep skill, or
pi-shaped with two areas of emphasis. But of course there are other ways to
think about careers and skills and don't forget that hobbies can also
play a role in your life of learning. Not do they make you happy,
they help keep your brain fresh and agile. Sometimes they can even end
up enhancing your career. For example, one of my hobbies is to
watch a bit of television in the evenings with my husband, Phil. And this help me develop insights over the
years about how the video medium looks and works, which in turn has helped
me to build better MOOCs. But look at how other people think
about building their skill sets. Scott Adams, who's the creator
of the famous Dilbert cartoon, points out that he's got mediocre
skills in a lot of areas. He's a second grade artist, with
reasonable writing, business, marketing, and social media skills. Put all those middling skills together,
however, and it becomes clearer why Adams has been so
successful as a cartoonist. His overall talent stack is terrific, even if he's not particularly
good at any one area. Many individuals focus on
acquiring a specific skill, say, a certain programming language. But they forget that other skills,
such as being able to speak humorously and effectively, can add formidable
value to their talents stack. US sales entrepreneur Rodney Grim for example, keeps his focus on his broad
profession in selling electronics. As he points out. >> I'm a jack of all trades. While this limits me from truly
excelling at one thing in particular. It also serves as a strong defense in
a technological world where the rate of change is only accelerated. I've been an electronics technician,
a programmer, a salesman. I also own my own business. And I shift my roles drawing on
my background as opportunity and change dictate. >> Brian Brookshire who's worked
as an online marketing specialist, looks at second-skilling
from a related perspective. >> To tell the truth,
often there really isn't that much difference between someone who's
been on the job for six months and someone who's been working
that same job for six years. So second skilling doesn't need to
be as difficult as you might think. Skill development careers are typically
logarithmic and not linear. Which means that, while developing deep
expertise may take a long time, often, you can rapidly accelerate to
the point of diminishing returns in a fairly short period of time. And this is often good enough
to get a toehold in a new area. Personally, I find that I really
enjoy requiring lots of new skills because of that thrill you get
with the initial rush of progress. >> Sometimes you might find yourself
blocked when you're aiming for a certain career. For example, Princess Allotey, couldn't
afford to go full time to the university to study the mathematics she loved. >> So I intend to give back to my community. I volunteered as a math
teaching assistant, and I taught kids math in Ghana. I certainly proved language can
improve things for kids in Ghana. And I ended up going around
Ghana making presentations. Surprisingly, I developed this skill
what I always wanted to do enough, and that was public speaking. >> Intishar Rashad from
Bangladesh has also made the most of a startling
change of fortune. >> When I graduated from high school, I decided to go into the military
to become an air force engineer. However, due to an accident,
I suffered a severe spine injury and it seemed to ruin my
potential career choice. Instead of losing hope,
I changed my mindset and now I'm a medical student
focusing on a career in medicine. >> So if you're blocked, either
temporarily or permanently in what you want to learn or do, that's often a great
opportunity to second skill yourself, or do something else that's
equally exciting or fulfilling. Once you started learning the new skill,
you'll often be surprised to see the powerful enhancement it makes with
relation to your preexisting skills. And remember, non-academic topics can
be invaluable assets to your career. For example, Singapore entrepreneur, Adam
Koo, found that his skills in magic And in DJing, completely unrelated
to his degree in business, have taught him a lot about how to
effectively engage with audiences. The result, he now runs one of
Southeast Asia's largest private educational institutions training
to tens of thousands each year. In the end, it's always important to keep
your mind open and to keep learning. This is the best way to ensure
your skills don't become obsolete. Read, take MOOCS, and take courses and
seminars to keep yourself prepared, no matter what twists or
turns your career may take. Do you have a skill or hobby that's been
overlooked but that could be valuable? Are there new technical areas you could
start now to gradually learn about that you've previously dismissed as being
something you wouldn't be able to do? Head on over to the discussion forum and let us know about some of your hidden
talent, potential and desires. And get ideas from the hidden talent and
potential of others. [MUSIC]