[MUSIC] [SOUND] [MUSIC] Most people think about their career
development as taking the form of a sort of a T. So you have your arms out,
and the T going down. In other words, you have one heavy-duty
skill, that's the downward part of the T, and you complement it by taking some
superficial knowledge of other things. That's the initial approach
I took to my career. I learned Russian, and
also learned a smattering of other skills, like how to type,
how to drive [SOUND] a truck. The challenge of course, is that I found
myself without too many opportunities. But there's another way
to think about careers. That's the pi approach, which is promoted by Patrick Tay, an
elected member of Singapore's Parliament. Notice that this career
approach has sort of two legs, gives you more balance, right? And you have one main skill,
say accounting, but you also want to supplement that with knowledge
in another area, say counselling. The second area may be directly related or
it may be quite different from the first. If time and money are tight, you should try to build your second skill
out of what you're already familiar with. When I went to look at
second skilling myself, I took a clue from what I'd
witnessed in the military. Having at least some technical
competence in your skills toolkit often means you have more opportunities. So that was a big push for me towards getting a second
set of skills in engineering. Even though I didn't think I had any
passion or talent for engineering. To my surprise, when I began getting
better at my engineering studies, I began to realize I liked engineering and
I found something more. My previous background
as a linguist actually enhanced my studies of engineering and
my ability as engineer. I'd learned about chunking and
interleaving and deliberate practice. In other words, I'd learned how to learn. I thought more creatively
about my engineering studies because of my passion for language. There are many examples of people
becoming successful at their passion only because they stopped focusing
directly and solely on that passion, and instead began incorporating
real world considerations. For example, writer Scott Turow initially
had trouble making it as an author. So he took a step sideways
instead to attend law school. The real world expertise he acquired as a lawyer gave his fiction
extraordinary power. His books have since sold more than
30 million copies around the world. As you know, my hero in science is
the father of modern neuroscience, Santiago Ramon y Cajal. Cajal's father was a doctor who pushed
his son hard towards becoming a doctor, but Cajal himself wanted to be an artist. Here it was, Spain in the 1860s, and the arguments between a parent and
child were the same as they are today. Cajal's father pointed out that it was
almost impossible to make a living as an artist but Cajal resisted strongly. Until, that is, Cajal finally realized
that the real world is important. In fact, he was going nowhere fast. Finally, he began turning his attention
towards working to become a doctor. It was very difficult for him. He flunked some major examinations,
but he kept trying. However, he never forgot his passion for
art. In fact, he brought that artistic
passion into his study of medicine which ultimately played an important role
in helping Cajal win the Nobel Prize. So remember, you can bring a second skill
into your work because of your passion, or simply because it enhances or
complements your first skill. You may have to spend some parts of your
life focusing on one thing in order to get deep skilling in that area, but
you don't have to give up on your passion. In fact, your passion can greatly enhance
your creative ability in your other skill. In the end, it's never a good idea
to just blindly follow your passion. In fact, look at the real world and work
to both follow and broaden your passions. Your life will be greatly enriched. [MUSIC]