[MUSIC] There is one important aspect of learning,
that we haven't yet touched on. Yet it can be one of the most
important aspects of learning of all. That is mentors. Mentors aren't necessarily parent-like
figures who spend many hours brainstorming and
guiding you to your future. In fact, a mentor can be as
simple as someone who says, or does, something that causes you to
think and make valuable changes. Or, who gives you insight about your life. You don't even have to
meet a mentor in person. It's not that mentors can, or even should,
tell you what you should be doing. It's that mentors can help you view
the world in a different way, so you can more easily discover and go in the
direction you determine is best for you, not to mention that they can have ideas
and context that can change your life. Our lives are filled with
a wide variety of mentors who help us in many ways large and small. Even rude and
mean people can be mentors to us since they can show us what we
don't want to be like ourselves. And sometimes their feedback and thoughts although painful can be
helpful in the grand scheme of things. Arnim Rodeck, for example,
was an electrical engineer who made an enormous career change when he decided
to become a creative wood worker, a craft at which he would
eventually become world class. Arnim differentiates his mentors
into two different types. >> Hi there,
there are several type of mentors, the ones who actually pump us up and
energize us, or the ones who actually could be much more critical and
actually won't tolerate any excuses. They might be much more stern and
demanding people but at the end of the day, the insight
we gain from them is invaluable. >> Mentors can even be online nowadays. For example, in learning experiences as
different as acquiring a new language or training a horse, you may interact with
a mentor who lives far away from you. My co-instructor, Terry Sejnowski,
also has some thoughts here. >> The brain works best with concrete
examples not abstract aspirations. A good place to start reinventing
yourself is to ask, who has had the most influence on my life and
who has inspired me to start a new life? Influential mentors have motivated
me to become who I am today. In high school, I joined the radio club
and I learned electronics and Morse code. The radio club had tracked the Sputnik, the first satellite to circle the earth at
a time when the US was taken by surprise. I was asked, what is your mission? We all have a mission in life but if you don't ask yourself the question,
you may never find the answer. I still ask myself this question
because the answer keeps changing. Asking yourself the right question
about your life is half the battle, where do I want to be next month or
next year? This will shape what
skills you'll need and what steps you should
take to acquire them. Persistence is a virtue. Don't let setbacks keep you back. Motivation can also come from working
closely with someone who shares the same goals. Projects with short-term goals
can focus the mind wonderfully. The persistence needed to
achieve long term goals can be sustained by collaborations
that are more like marriages. These relationships can be the most
satisfying, choose them wisely. Mind shifting may mean
re-evaluating your relationships, finding new short-term collaborations, and cultivating longer-term ones
that take you in new directions. >> A word of advice, it's unwise to approach a person you don't
know and ask them to be your mentor. This can put that person in
an uncomfortable situation, after all they have no idea what
your expectations of a mentor are. And truthfully, they have no idea
whether you might be a fit for them. In fact, it's often better to avoid
asking someone to be your mentor, even if you consider them
to be a mentor to you. If the fit is right, a relationship
will develop organically, and in the course of this relationship, you may only get tiny snippets of
occasional insight from your mentor. But this can still be very valuable. Because while these snippets may take
only a few seconds for the mentor to say, they can nevertheless have a profound
influence on you and your career. So don't discount the importance of
even the most trivial seeming exchanges with someone you consider a mentor. Finally, if it seems reasonable look for ways to make yourself somehow
useful to your mentor. Just as they are for you. Ensuring that the benefits
of the relationship go both ways will make it that much stronger. And if you've had a positive
mentoring experience, look for ways to pay it forward by mentoring
others in ways similar to the mentoring that has helped you. [MUSIC]