[MUSIC] If you have long term goals in
a difficult to master area, one of the best things you can do is to
immerse yourself in what you're learning. For example, if you're planning to become
successful in the restaurant business, one of the best things you can
do is to get experience in every aspect of restauranting that you possibly
can, from busing tables, to serving, to managing accounts. Without this kind of experience, it can be a lot easier to make mistakes
that allow your future business to fail. This may seem obvious, but sometimes
the cockiness that helps fuel and, results from our success in
one area can go to our heads. Even eminent scientists, for example, have
been known to fail disastrously when they tried to jump into a new area without
getting themselves properly prepared. My co-instructor, Terry Sejnowski, for
example, took these ideas into account when he switched from the study of
physics to the study of neuroscience. >> I was advised to get
neurons under my fingernails. I worked hard over years to
master the biology I needed to truly understand the new
discipline I was moving into. At the same time,
I practiced selective ignorance. I knew that my expertise with computers,
a rare asset in the late 1970s, could mean that I'd be dragged into
computer related work that would keep me away from the biology
I needed to master. So I vowed not to touch
a computer during those years, giving me time to focus on
the biology that I needed to master. >> Selective ignorance, then,
is another important career tip. You want to master all
the details that you can that will support you in what
you're trying to learn or do. But at the same time,
you don't want to simply start being used by other people as a tool for
their own work. Marketing specialist, Bryan Brookshire, has some additional
insight along these lines. >> I told a former boss that I wanted to
learn how to do everything at the company and her reply was, don't do that. You've got to cultivate selective
ignorance because if you know how to do everything, then you become everybody's
go to person and that can interfere with getting your own work done, and
that turned out to be pretty good advice. Cultivating selective ignorance has often
prevented me from getting drafted into projects that I had no interest
in participating in, or time for. >> So there you have it,
general competence, along with selective ignorance are two
important keys for career success. [MUSIC]