[MUSIC] For a long time, emotions were considered
unreliable compared with cognition. This has all changed in
the last few decades. Emotions are important for
social interactions, learning, and decision making. Emotions are complex brain states,
associated with positive and negative experiences, and they
are accompanied by facial expressions. Darwin wrote a book about visual
expression as a form of communication that is important for survival,
and natural selection. Paul Ekman is the world's leading
expert on facial expression. He was the real world inspiration for Cal
Lightman in the TV drama series Lie to me, although Paul is lot
nicer person than Cal. Ekman went to Papua New Guinea to
find out if pre-industrial cultures responded emotionally with the same
facial expressions that we do. He found six universal
expressions of emotion in all human societies that he studied. Happiness, sadness, anger,
surprise, fear, and disgust. Emotions are typically slow in onset and
can last for a long time. Can you remember the last
time that you got angry? How long did the angry mood last? There are groups of neurons very deep in
the brain stem called neuromodulatory systems that control your levels of
arousal, motivation, and attention. Last week, we saw that one of them,
the serotonin system, was important for regulating social interactions. Another brain stem system that fans
out over wide regions of the brain, uses a chemical called noradrenaline. Edronax is a drug that works along
the lines of Prozac, except that it is a reuptake inhibitor for noradrenaline,
and it increases its activity. It could be more effective than Prozac in
helping patients who are depressed and lack the capacity for
sustained motivation. Whereas, serotonin activation
results in serenity and mellowness, noradrenaline activity is
involved in increasing drive motivation. When a closely related molecule
manufactured in your adrenal gland, called adrenaline, is released in your blood,
it makes your heart pound faster and prepares your body for vigorous physical
activity, paralleling the increase in mental activity triggered by
noradrenaline inside the brain. Is depression caused by imbalances
in serotonin or in noradrenaline? These ancient neural systems interact with
one another like players in an orchestra. So part of a serotonergic drug's efficacy, may be indirect by altering
levels of noradrenaline. This interaction complicates
the search for effective treatments for mental disorders, and reminds us,
that although we talk about this or that chemical system,
brain systems are deeply integrated. There is another powerful motivational
system in the brain that uses dopamine, and is centered in the few
groups of cells in the midbrain. This system of dopamine neurons
underlies both the motivational and the emotional facets of extraversion. High dopamine levels puts people in a good
mood, energizes some people to seek out new worlds, and
to go boldly where no one has gone before. But not too high a level since
that leads to Tourette Syndrome, characterized by uncontrolled
ballistic movements, and a blue streak of swear words,
which you can imagine on your own. Your dopamine neurons can be interrogated
when you need to make a decision. What should I order from the menu? You imagine each item, and your dopamine cells provide
an estimate of the expected reward. Should I marry this person? Your dopamine cells will
give you a gut opinion that is more trustworthy than reasoning. Problems with many incommensurate
dimensions are the most difficult to decide. For example,
how do you trade off a sense of humor, a good dimension,
with being messy, a bad dimension? Or hundreds of other comparisons. Your reward system reduces all these
dimensions down to a common currency, the transient dopamine signal. Dopamine is a central part
of reinforcement learning, which occurs when you associate
a sensory input with a reward. Such as Pavlov's dog, in which food odors
are are associated with salivation. Dopamine is released in the brain
when an unexpected reward occurs, and dopamine levels are reduced from baseline,
when an expected reward is not received. Dopamine neurons receive inputs from
a part of the brain called the basal ganglia, which evaluates cortical
states and assigns value to them, and is involved with learning sequences
of motor actions to achieve a goal. Although this form of
learning might seem simple, it has now been shown that
reinforcement learning is the basis for the most powerful artificial
intelligence system ever created. It is not just your cognitive systems,
but also the impetus provided by your emotional systems
that make you intelligent. Go is an ancient game that
is highly popular in Asia. The 19 by 19 Go board is much
larger than the 8 by 8 chessboard, which makes it possible to have several
battles raging in different parts of the board, white against black pieces,
vying for territory. Go is to chess in difficulty,
as chess is to checkers. If chess is a battle, Go is a war. It has been thought that Go was so difficult that no computer program
could ever play at championship level. However, this changed when
the Korean Go world champion played a match with AlphaGo, a program based on reinforcement learning
that played itself many millions of times. It came as a shock to many when
AlphaGo won the first three games, winning the match, and exhibiting an
an unexpectedly high level of play. The three neuromodulatory systems
based on serotonin, noradrenaline, and dopamine interact strongly with
the emotional systems in the brain. Without them, we would not be human. With them, we are able to form social
bonds, evaluate dangerous situations, and learn new skills. I often wondered why Spock,
on Star Trek, had such a flat affect. Could it be his neuromodulators were low? Think about it. [MUSIC]