[SOUND] In this video, we're going to
answer the question. What is a chunk? When you first look at a brand new concept
it sometimes doesn't make much sense, as shown by the
jumbled puzzle pieces here. Chunking is the mental leap that helps you unite bits of information together
through meaning. The new logical whole makes the chunk
easier to remember, and also makes it easier to fit the chunk into the larger
picture of what you're learning. Just memorizing a fact without
understanding or context doesn't help you understand
what's really going on or how the concept fits together with other concepts you're
learning. Notice there are no interlocking puzzle
edges on the puzzle piece to help you fit it to other
pieces. We talked earlier about working memory and
how those four slots of working memory appear
to hang out in the part of your brain right behind your forehead known as the
prefrontal cortex. When you're focusing your attention on
something it's almost as if you have an octopus. The octopus of attention that slips it's
tentacles through those four slots of working memory
when necessary to help you make connections to
information that you might have in various parts of your
brain. Remember, this is different from the
random connections of the diffuse mode. Focusing your attention to connect parts
of the brain to tie together ideas is an important part of the
focused mode of learning. It is also often what helps get you
started in creating a chunk. Interestingly when you're stressed your
attentional octopus begins to lose the ability to make some of those
connections. This is why your brain doesn't seem to work right when you're angry, stressed, or
afraid. Chunks are pieces of information,
neuroscientifically speaking, through bound together through meaning or
use. You can take the letters P-O and P and
bind them together into one conceptual easy to
remember chunk, the word pop. [SOUND] It's like converting a, a
cumbersome computer file into a ZIP file. Underneath that single pop chunk is a
symphony of neurons that have learned to sing in tune with one
another. The complex neural activity that ties together our simplifying abstract chunks
of thought. Whether those thoughts pertain to
acronyms, ideas, or concepts are the basis of much of the science,
literature, and art. Let's say you want to learn how to speak
Spanish. If you're a child hanging around a Spanish speaking household, learning Spanish is as
natural as breathing. Your mother says, mama. And you say, mama, right back to her. Your neurons fire and wire together in a
shimmering mental loop cementing the relationship in your mind between the
sound mama and your mother's smiling face. That scintillating neural loop is one
memory trace, which is connected of course to many other
related memory traces. The best programs for learning language,
such as those of the Defense Language Institute where I
learned Russian, incorporate structured practice that includes repetition and rote
focus mode learning of the language along with more diffuse-like
free speech with native speakers. The goal is to embed the basic words and
patterns so you can speak as freely and creatively in your new language as you do in your native
language. As it turns out one of the first steps towards gaining expertise in
academic topics is to create conceptual chunks, mental
leaps that unite scattered bits of information
through meaning. The concept of neural chunks also applies
to sports, music, dance, really just about anything that
humans can get good at. Basically, a chunk means a network of
neurons that are used to firing together so you can think a thought or perform an
action smoothly and effectively. Focused practice and repetition, the
creation of strong memory traces, helps you to create
chunks. The path to expertise is built little by little, small chunks can become larger,
and all of the expertise serves to underpin more
creative interpretations as you gradually become a master of the
material. In other words, as you'll see later, practice and repetition in building chunks
aren't all you need to become a truly creative
master of the material you're learning. Chunking helps your brain run more
efficiently. Once you chunk an idea, a concept, or an
action, you don't know need to remember all the
little underlying details. You've got the main idea, the chunk, and
that's enough. It's like getting dressed in the morning. You just think one simple thought like,
I'll get dressed, but it's amazing when you
realize the complex swirl of underlying activities
that take place with that one, simple chunk of
thought. Next, we'll talk about how you can form a
chunk. I'm Barbara Oakley. Thanks for learning how to learn. [BLANK_AUDIO]