[BLANK_AUDIO] One of the best things you can do to not
only remember, but understand concepts, is to create a
metaphor or analogy for them. Often the more visual the better. A metaphor is just a way of realizing that
one thing is somehow similar to another. Simple ideas like one geography teacher's
description of Syria is shaped like a bowl of cereal, and Jordan as a Nike Air Jordan sneaker, can stick with a student for
decades. If you're trying to understand electrical
current, it can help to visualize it as water. Similarly, electrical voltage can feel
like pressure. A push. As you climb to a more sophisticated understanding of whatever topic you're
concentrating on, you can revise your metaphors or toss them
away and create more meaningful ones. Metaphors and visualization, being able to
see something in your mind's eye, have been especially
helpful not only in art and literature, but also in allowing the scientific and engineering
world to make progress. In the 1800s for example, when chemists
began to imagine and visualize the miniature world of molecules, dramatic
progress began to be made. Here's a fun illustration of monkeys in a
benzene ring from an insider spoof of German Academic
Chemical Life printed in 1886. Note the single bonds, or the monkeys'
hands, and the double bonds with their tiny
little tails. It's often helpful to pretend that you are
the concept you're trying to understand. Put yourself in an electron's warm and
fuzzy slippers as it burrows through a slab of
copper. Or sneak inside the X of an algebraic
equation and feel what it's like to poke your head out of
the rabbit hole. But just don't let it get exploded by an
inadvertent divide by zero. In chemistry, compare a cation with a cat
that has paws and is therefore pawsitive. And an anion with an onion that's
negative, because it makes you cry. Metaphors are never perfect, but then in
science, all models are just metaphors which means they break
down at some point. But nevermind that. Metaphors and models are often vitally important in giving a physical
understanding of the central idea behind the process or
concept you are trying to understand. Interestingly, metaphors and analogies are
useful for getting people out of Einstellung that is, being blocked by
thinking about a problem in the wrong way. For example, telling a simple story of
soldiers attacking a fortress from many different directions
at once can open creative paths for students to see how
many low-intensity rays can be effectively used to destroy a
cancerous tumor. Stories, even if they're just used as
silly memory tricks, can also allow you to more easily retain what
you're trying to learn. Metaphors also help glue an idea into your
mind. Because they make a connection to neural
structures that are already there. It's like being able to trace a pattern
with tracing paper. Metaphors at least help you get a sense of
what's going on. I'm Barbara Oakley. Thanks for learning how to learn. [BLANK_AUDIO]