[MUSIC] There's a lot of misinformation out there
about the concept of learning styles. To help keep you on track with your
learning, I'd like to give you some quick insight into what researchers have
found and what it means for you. People receive and
process new information in different ways. Pretty much all researchers
agree with that idea. But what supporters of learning styles
theory propose is something more. That people learn best when
information is presented in a person's preferred learning style. Visual learners for example would recall
and understand better if they can see the material as opposed to audio
learners who would recall and understand the material better,
if they can hear the material. But here's what researcher Beth Rogowsky
and her colleges had found when they carefully analyzed some of
the most common learning styles. If you take a standardized adult learning
style inventory that shows you're a visual learner, you actually don't do any
better when you're reading the words, than if you hear the words. Likewise if you test out as an auditory
learner, you don't learn any better when you hear the material
as opposed to when you can see it. In other words, there is no statistically
significant difference when it comes to the relationship between
a learning style preference and instructional method for
your ability to comprehend the materials. Not only has research shown then that
targeting your best learning style, doesn't appear to help you learn better,
it seems like relying on your preferred style weakens your ability
to learn using other senses. For example, if you think
you're an auditory learner and you try to focus on learning by listening, what that means is you're getting less
practice with reading, using your eyes. But being able to read well is
an important skill in today's world. In fact, if you're an auditory learner,
that's what you think you are, and you catered to your supposed need for
auditory materials, then you're actually undercutting your ability to learn
using one of the most common and important ways that most people receive
information, that is, using visual means. How are you going to do well on typical
standardized test, for example, if you don't practice the highly
visual art of reading. It seems we often learn best when we
can integrate what we're learning using a lot of our different senses
including hearing, seeing and perhaps especially being able to feel
with our hands, like what you're hopefully doing right now, seeing me,
listening to what I'm telling you and maybe even taking notes of it with
a pen or pencil in your hand. And feeling the paper on your notebook. Learning styles forms a big industry. Authors and companies make a lot of money
from the tests they devise, administer, and teach workshops about. So there's a big push to the idea that
teaching to learning styles is important, even if there's a lack of scientific
evidence for these claims, and even if teaching to learning
styles can actually be harmful. So, a word to the wise,
whenever you're learning something, try to take advantage
of all of your senses. Don't characterize yourself as just
having one preferred learning style. Instead think of yourself as
an all inclusive type learner, you'll learn so much better as a result.