[MUSIC] So what could I have done in reaction to
my personal setback with my grades, or with any kind of setback that could
have made for a healthier outlook? Putting a label on your feelings,
in other words, putting your feelings into a few brief
words is one of the most helpful mental tricks you can use when you find
yourself being emotionally upset. Applying a label forces you to put
your emotional feelings into words. And moving feelings into words
helps you shift your thinking from the emotional centers of your brain to
the more rational parts of your brain, which automatically begins
to tone down your emotions. Fortunately, a field called cognitive
therapy has developed a checklist of common emotionally-based
distortions of thinking. This checklist provides
an automatic set of labels. You can look at these brief descriptive
words that I'm going to give you and see which ones fit the emotions you
might be feeling when you're upset. Once you've found the words for
your feelings, voilà, you're already beginning to move your thoughts from
emotions to more rational cognitions. Not only does this labeling
start helping to calm you down, it also helps you to more easily see
the distortions In your thinking. Here I'm going to give you some common
cognitive distortions based on the list developed by Dr. David Burns and
his great book, The New Mood Therapy. It's worth copying down
these distortions and using them as labels to reflect
on when something upsets you. Basically, when I felt
badly about my grades, I was using every common
cognitive distortion in the book. Let's review them one at a time. First, I was using all or
nothing thinking. I felt if I didn't get good grades,
I was a total failure. I mean, really. The reality was that I wasn't a total
failure by any stretch of the imagination. Even if I'd flunked out of the university,
I wouldn't have been a total failure. I was exploding the significance
of that semester of poor grades. The reality was that even if I'd
flunked out of school, and hadn't been successful at changing my brain to
be able to effectively study math, I likely would've found a way to go on and
have a successful and happy life. And then there's overgeneralization. I saw one semester's failure as part
of a series of failures in my life. Sure, I'd done badly that semester,
but I've done badly before. As when I'd been a failure as
a signal officer in the military. But previously, I'd also done well at
some things, like studying Russian. When I thought I was a failure, I simply
wasn't looking at the bigger picture. I was overgeneralizing in thinking
I'd always have bad grades. Remember Nobel Prize winning psychologist,
Daniel Kahneman's point? Nothing in life is as important
as you think it is while you're thinking about it. At that time, I felt like my
life was a complete failure. I was obviously wrong. I was also using a mental filter. I was focusing on my one semester's
poor grades and obsessing on them and forgetting about everything else. Here were all these good and
beautiful things around me everywhere, and I was ignoring them. I was also discounting the positive. I'd worked hard and
previously been able to get good grades. I had a wonderful husband who I'd met at
the South Pole station in Antarctica. I had my good health. I was also jumping to conclusions. Somehow, in my mind, I was predicting
that things would go badly from then on. The reality was that I didn't really know
what was going to happen from then on out. I was also mind reading. Thinking that others were
going to think badly of me. I really had no idea what other people,
like my family, would think. I was falling victim to my
own emotional reasoning. I assumed that just because I felt
negatively about what had happened, that it really was a negative thing. Actually, my feelings had little to do
with what was happening in the real world. The whole incident was equivalent to me
feeling terrified of the airplane flight, and the flight was
actually perfectly fine. I was telling myself I
should have done better. Shouldy kind of thinking, these kinds
of statements just aren't helpful. They lead only to guilt,
anger, and frustration. I was also using pejoratives of myself. I was telling myself I was stupid,
I was an idiot, and that what happened was
absolutely terrible. This kind of name calling
does no good at all. In fact,
it makes you feel bad about yourself and also leaves you feeling angry and
frustrated. What happened was unfortunate,
but it wasn't terrible. In fact, getting a few bad grades
really wasn't a big deal at all in the greater scheme of
how my life unfolded. Sometimes we take blame and assume
responsibility for errors we didn't make. Or we inappropriately blame others. In my case, I blamed myself for
my bad grades. After all, I was to blame for
getting away from my studies for a year. But did I really need to drag
myself under the bus for having undertaken some great adventures? So we've gone over a list of labels
you can use to move yourself from an emotionally based
framework to a more rational, calmed down part of the brain where
you can more carefully analyze and reason away the distortions
in your thinking. In the discussion forum,
you might want to mention something, anything that's been bothering you. Then describe what cognitive distortion or
distortions you may be using. It might be many of them. Finally, look logically at
the distortions you're using. What is the reality when you
put things into a greater life perspective just as I've done with
that past episode of my own life. Whenever you find yourself growing
despondent, sit yourself down, think about what's really bothering you,
go back through those labels, and see how your mind is tricking you. Then develop a rational response. You'll be surprised at how much
better this can make you feel. There's one more trick you can
use to help positively reframe. And that is to find positive ways to
think about a negative experience. For example, if you failed at business,
think of it as a great learning experience that many ultimately
successful entrepreneurs have also had. If you didn't get the job you wanted,
well, that's leaving you open for a better job ahead. And meanwhile, it's a great signal for
you to upgrade your skills. Did poorly on an exam? Well, maybe that's a clue to
examine your study habits. Your best friend dying of cancer? Well, maybe you want to focus
on trying to improve the quality of the life your friend has remaining. Positively reframing isn't
just mental trickery. It extinguishes negative emotions
that are arising from that fight or flight center of the amygdala. It seems that consciously finding
a way to change the meaning of what's being experienced reduces
the flood of stress-related neurotransmitters that are released
by the hyper-vigilant amygdala. You might wonder what positive thing
could possibly have come from my having rheumatoid arthritis? Simple, if it helps give you
a visual reminder you can call to mind to help calm yourself down and reframe in the face of the stress that
will inevitably arise in your life. I'll be back. [MUSIC]