[MUSIC] One tough challenge is deciding when
young people should be directed towards a specific career, because this decision
can have reverberations that can last throughout people's lives. In some parts of the world, students
are sorted into career paths early on. At age 16, for example, they may be
sent to either vocational training for the skilled trades or towards more
academically oriented training. In other parts of the world,
this choice is sometimes delayed. There are advantages and
disadvantages to each of these approaches. People choose career paths for
all sorts of reasons. In some countries,
the parents often make the choice, regardless of what their kids want to do. In other countries, the students themselves often make
the choice, despite the fact that they may have almost no real world experience
with the job choice they're making. Or sometimes, people simply come from
a background where they've had no previous access to quality education or
even to any proper education at all, which means that their career
choices are limited from the outset. Or people can be on a very wisely
chosen career path but then once they're exposed to new opportunities and
insights, they may want to change. Career change, and change of all kinds, is easier to do in some countries and
cultures than others. And, of course, it can be easier to
jump from some disciplines than others, age is also a factor. But as you probably gathered, my own sense
is that well thought out career change, and change of any kind, whether a small
shift to acquire a different set of skills that enhance your abilities to
do your job within your company, or a major shift to a new career. Forms of vitally important,
creative fuel for all societies. One of the biggest hurdles
to changing career paths or a change of any sort can be well meaning
friends, parents, and colleagues. It's not like this sort of push back
from others is necessarily a bad thing. It makes you consider your
choice very carefully. One important rule of thumb,
is to avoid going into debt while learning new skills at the field
you're hoping to move into is poorly paid. There's something very wrong in spending a
large amount to acquire a new knowledge or new skills, only to be poorly paid when
you ultimately get out on the job. If you are considering career change or
even simple second skilling, here are a few tips for
dealing with the push back from others, who might want you to
stay the way you are. With the dabble approach, you simply
start gradually learning in the new area, either online, through reading or
by taking local classes. This is a slow approach. But it can also help ensure that you,
yourself, can gradually grow with the change, which will make the transition
less jarring for all involved. The double life approach is much
more intense than dabbling. With this approach, you basically
compartmentalize your life and avoid talking to people about
what you're trying to do. This can be a more stressful way to tackle
your change, but it can have an advantage. It can prevent others from
trying to talk you out of your goals because you'll appear to
be continuing just as usual. For example,
you may continue working as a musician while you're taking side courses to
prepare you for a career in health care. And then there's being a contrarian. Take pride in being a contrarian. The more others say you will fail, the more it can help bolster
your internal resolve. Keep in mind, however, that it's
important to choose reachable and doable interim goals and
check points to assess your progress. For example,
if you tried as hard as you can, but repeatedly get very low scores on
the test to get into medical school, it maybe time to reassess your
dream of going to medical school. >> And don't forget that who
you are is not just you. Who you are also depends
on your environment. This means, that by changing your environment, you can
speed up the process of mind shifting. I shifted from physics to biology by
immersing myself in the best neuroscience environment I could find. I picked up a lot of facts, but much more
important, was what I learned by osmosis without conscious awareness of
what it was I was learning. I learned how to think like a biologists,
by being around biologists and interacting with them. I did make a conscious effort not to fall
back on what I had been, a physicist and mindset and skills of a physics. I took a vow of physics poverty to
remain open to what was new around me rather than revert back to
the old thought patterns. This approach also works for
learning a new language, you get to observe the culture
along with the language. >> In your attempts at career change, you don't want to minimize
important considerations. Like whether you've got at least the
basics of what it might take to succeed. Be willing to solicit and listen to valid criticism about
how you can change and improve. You don't want to be like
the cluelessly bad karaoke singer, warbling haplessly into the night because
his friends always told him he was great. If you are a friend, parent, or
mentor, of a potential mind shifter, try your best to remain open to
other people's ability to change. And if you're the one who's
making the change yourself, count yourself lucky if those
around you are supportive, and use the opportunity to
enjoy your new learning path. [MUSIC]