Consume a Variety of Foods
Not all the nutrients and other substances in foods that contribute to good health have been identified, so eating a wide assortment of foods helps ensure that you get all of the disease-fighting potential that foods offer. In addition, this will limit your exposure to any pesticides or toxic substances that may be present in a particular food.

2
Keep an Eye on Portions
Sure, you can eat all the broccoli and spinach you want, but for higher-calorie foods, portion control is the key. In recent years, serving sizes have ballooned. In restaurants, choose an appetizer instead of an entree or split a dish with a friend. Don’t order anything that’s been “supersized.” When reading food labels, check serving sizes: some relatively small packages claim to contain more than one serving, so you have to double or triple the calories, grams of fat and milligrams of sodium if you’re planning to eat the whole thing.

3
Eat Plenty of Produce
Aim for 2½ cups of vegetables and 2 cups of fruit a day, for a 2,000-calorie diet. If you consume more calories, aim for more; if you eat fewer than 2,000 calories, you can eat less. Include green, orange, red, blue/purple and yellow produce. The nutrients, fiber and other compounds in these foods may help protect against certain types of cancer and other diseases. Legumes, rich in fiber, count as vegetables, though are moderately high in calories. Choose whole fruits over juice for more fiber. Frozen and canned fruits and vegetables are good options.

4
Get More Whole Grains
At least half your grains should be whole grains, such as whole wheat, barley and oats. Whole grains retain the bran and germ and thus all (or nearly all) of the nutrients and fiber of the grain. Look for a product labeled “100% whole wheat” or “100% whole grain.” If it doesn’t say that, look for a whole grain listed as the first ingredient, though there still may be lots of refined wheat (also called “white” or “enriched” flour) and/or sugar. Another option is to look for the voluntary “Whole Grain Stamp” from the Whole Grains Council.

5
Limit Refined Grains, Added Sugar
The refined carbohydrates in white bread, regular pasta and most snack foods have little or no dietary fiber and have been stripped of many nutrients. On food labels, watch out for “wheat flour” (also called “white,” “refined” or “enriched” flour) on the ingredients list. Also, limit foods with added sugar, such as soda and candy. These are sources of empty calories that contribute to weight gain. Many sugary foods are also high in fat, so they’re even more calorie-dense.



6
Enjoy More Fish and Nuts
Nuts, fatty fish, avocados and vegetable oils supply healthy unsaturated fats. Recent research suggests these foods, though high in calories, tend not to promote weight gain because they are satisfying. Still, it’s best to eat them in place of other high-calorie foods. For instance, substitute olive or canola oil for butter. Fatty fish helps reduce heart disease risks and has other benefits, largely because of its omega-3 polyunsaturated fats.

7
Cut Down on Animal Fat
Saturated fats, especially from red meat and processed meat, boost LDL (“bad”) cholesterol. To limit your intake, choose lean meats, skinless poultry and nonfat or low-fat dairy products. It’s also a good idea to replace saturated fats with “good” fats, found in nuts, fish and vegetable oils, not with refined carbohydrates such as white bread and snack foods.

8
Shun Trans Fats
Trans fats are supplied by partially hydrogenated vegetable oils used in many processed foods (such as commercial baked goods, snack foods and stick margarines) and fast foods (such as French fries). Trans fats raise LDL (“bad”) cholesterol and also reduce HDL (“good”) cholesterol, increasing the risk of heart disease. Since 2006, when a trans fat labeling law went into effect, many food makers have eliminated or greatly reduced these fats in their products.

9
Don't Worry About Cholesterol
Though a 300-milligram daily cap on cholesterol intake has long been advised, there's abundant evidence that cholesterol in food has little, if any, effect on blood cholesterol in most people. Thus, many experts no longer recommend limiting dietary cholesterol (found only in animal foods, notably eggs and shrimp). The best way for most people to lower their blood cholesterol is to reduce saturated fats (as in meats) and trans fats (from partially hydrogenated oils in processed foods). A possible exception is people with diabetes, who should talk to their doctor about their overall diet.

10
Keep Sodium Down, Potassium Up
Excess sodium raises blood pressure in many people and has other harmful effects. People over 50, black people, and those with hypertension, diabetes, or chronic kidney disease—that’s most adults—should limit sodium to 1,500 milligrams a day (about two-thirds of a teaspoon of salt). Everyone else should aim for less than 2,300 milligrams a day. At the same time, consume more potassium, which lowers blood pressure. Potassium-rich foods include citrus fruits, bananas, potatoes, beans and yogurt.

11
Watch Your Calcium and Vitamin D
These nutrients are vital for bone health. Get calcium from low-fat or nonfat dairy products and fortified foods such as some orange juices and soy drinks. If you can’t get 1,000 to 1,200 mg a day from foods, take a calcium supplement. It’s hard to consume enough vitamin D from foods, and getting it from sunlight is risky. Many people—especially those who are over 60, live at northern latitudes or have darker skin—may need a D supplement (800 to 1,000 IU a day).



12
Choose Food Over Supplements
Supplements cannot substitute for a healthy diet, which supplies countless other potentially beneficial compounds besides vitamins and minerals. Foods also provide the “synergy” that many nutrients require to be efficiently used in the body. Still, for many people a basic multivitamin/mineral pill can provide some of the nutrients they may fall short on. In addition, many people need calcium as well as vitamin D supplements to meet recommended intakes.

 13
Be Aware of Liquid Calories
Beverages supply more than 20 percent of the calories in the average American’s diet. Some liquid calories come from healthy beverages, such as milk and 100 percent fruit juice. But most come from soda and other sweetened beverages and alcoholic drinks, which have lots of calories yet few, if any, nutrients. Soft drinks are a major source of sugar and calories for many Americans, especially children. Though juice is more nutritious than soft drinks, it’s also high in calories, so most people should drink no more than one cup a day.

14
Limit Alcohol
If you drink, do so in moderation. That means no more than one drink a day for women, two a day for men. Older people should drink even less. A drink is defined as 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1½ ounces of 80-proof spirits. While alcohol in moderation has heart benefits, higher intakes can lead to a wide range of health problems. Even moderate drinking impairs your ability to drive and may increase the risk of certain cancers. Some people, including pregnant women and those who have certain medical conditions, should avoid alcohol altogether.

15
Enjoy Your Food
Be mindful of what you eat, which may help you eat less and enjoy your food more. Many cultures around the world emphasize the enjoyment of food, which often includes cooking and eating with others, as an integral ingredient to good health. Even our own Dietary Guidelines for Americans touch on the idea that eating healthfully involves "enjoying food and celebrating cultural and personal traditions through food." According to some research, shared mealtimes, especially during childhood, may act as a “protective factor” for many nutrition health-related problems as well as increase prosocial behavior in adulthood.
The key to a healthy diet is to:

Eat the right amount of calories for how active you are, so that you balance the energy you consume with the energy you use. If you eat or drink too much, you'll put on weight. If you eat and drink too little, you'll lose weight.
Eat a wide range of foods to ensure that you're getting a balanced diet and that your body is receiving all the nutrients it needs.
It is recommended that men have around 2,500 calories a day (10,500 kilojoules). Women should have around 2,000 calories a day (8,400 kilojoules). Most adults are eating more calories than they need, and should eat fewer calories.

Base your meals on starchy carbohydrates
Starchy carbohydrates should make up just over one third of the food you eat. They include potatoes, bread, rice, pasta and cereals.

Choose wholegrain varieties (or eat potatoes with their skins on) when you can: they contain more fibre, and can help you feel full for longer.

Most of us should eat more starchy foods: try to include at least one starchy food with each main meal. Some people think starchy foods are fattening, but gram for gram the carbohydrate they contain provides fewer than half the calories of fat.

Keep an eye on the fats you add when you're cooking or serving these types of foods because that's what increases the calorie content, for example oil on chips, butter on bread and creamy sauces on pasta.

Eat lots of fruit and veg
It's recommended that we eat at least five portions of a variety of fruit and veg every day. It's easier than it sounds.

Why not chop a banana over your breakfast cereal, or swap your usual mid-morning snack for a piece of fresh fruit?

Unsweetened 100% fruit juice, vegetable juice and smoothies can only ever count as a maximum of one portion of your 5 A DAY. For example, if you have two glasses of fruit juice and a smoothie in one day, that still only counts as one portion.

Eat more fish – including a portion of oily fish
Fish is a good source of protein and contains many vitamins and minerals. Aim to eat at least two portions of fish a week, including at least one portion of oily fish. Oily fish contains omega-3 fats, which may help to prevent heart disease.

Oily fish include:

salmon
mackerel
trout
herring
fresh tuna
sardines
pilchards.
Non-oily fish include:

haddock
plaice
coley
cod
canned tuna
skate
hake
If you regularly eat a lot of fish, try to choose as wide a variety as possible.

You can choose from fresh, frozen and canned: but remember that canned and smoked fish can be high in salt.

Cut down on saturated fat and sugar
Saturated fat in our diet

We all need some fat in our diet, but it's important to pay attention to the amount and type of fat we're eating. There are two main types of fat: saturated and unsaturated. Too much saturated fat can increase the amount of cholesterol in the blood, which increases your risk of developing heart disease.

The average man should have no more than 30g saturated fat a day. The average woman should have no more than 20g saturated fat a day, and children should have less than adults.

Saturated fat is found in many foods, such as:

hard cheese
cakes
biscuits
sausages
cream
butter
lard
pies.
Try to cut down on your saturated fat intake, and choose foods that contain unsaturated fats instead, such as vegetable oils, oily fish and avocados.

For a healthier choice, use just a small amount of vegetable oil or reduced-fat spread instead of butter, lard or ghee. When you're having meat, choose lean cuts and cut off any visible fat.

Sugar in our diet

Regularly consuming foods and drinks high in sugar increases your risk of obesity and tooth decay.

Sugary foods and drinks, including alcoholic drinks, are often high in energy (measured in kilojoules or calories), and if eaten too often, can contribute to weight gain. They can also cause tooth decay, especially if eaten between meals.

Many packaged foods and drinks contain surprisingly high amounts of free sugars. Free sugars are any sugars added to foods or drinks, or found naturally in honey, syrups and unsweetened fruit juices.

Cut down on:

sugary fizzy drinks
alcoholic drinks
sugary breakfast cereals
cakes
biscuits
pastries
These foods contain added sugars: this is the kind of sugar we should be cutting down on, rather than sugars that are found in things such as fruit and milk.

Food labels can help: use them to check how much sugar foods contain. More than 22.5g of total sugars per 100g means that the food is high in sugar, while 5g of total sugars or less per 100g means that the food is low in sugar.

Get tips on cutting down sugar in your diet.

Eat less salt – no more than 6g a day for adults
Eating too much salt can raise your blood pressure. People with high blood pressure are more likely to develop heart disease or have a stroke.

Even if you don’t add salt to your food, you may still be eating too much. About three-quarters of the salt we eat is already in the food we buy, such as breakfast cereals, soups, breads and sauces.

Use food labels to help you cut down. More than 1.5g of salt per 100g means the food is high in salt. Adults and children over 11 should eat no more than 6g of salt (about a teaspoonful) a day. Younger children should have even less.

Get tips on cutting down on salt in your diet.

Get active and be a healthy weight
Eating a healthy, balanced diet plays an essential role in maintaining a healthy weight, which is an important part of overall good health.

Being overweight or obese can lead to health conditions such as type 2 diabetes, certain cancers, heart disease and stroke. Being underweight could also affect your health.

Check whether you're a healthy weight by using our Healthy weight calculator.

Most adults need to lose weight, and need to eat fewer calories to do this. If you're trying to lose weight, aim to eat less and be more active. Eating a healthy, balanced diet will help: aim to cut down on foods that are high in saturated fat and sugar, and eat plenty of fruit and vegetables.

Don't forget that alcohol is also high in calories, so cutting down can help you to control your weight.

Physical activity can help you to maintain weight loss or be a healthy weight. Being active doesn't have to mean hours at the gym: you can find ways to fit more activity into your daily life. For example, try getting off the bus one stop early on the way home from work, and walking.

Being physically active may help reduce the risk of heart disease, stroke and type 2 diabetes. For more ideas, see Get active your way.

After getting active, remember not to reward yourself with a treat that is high in energy. If you feel hungry after activity, choose foods or drinks that are lower in calories, but still filling.

If you're underweight, see our page on underweight adults. If you're worried about your weight, ask your GP or a dietitian for advice.

Don't get thirsty
We need to drink plenty of fluids to stop us getting dehydrated – the government recommends 6-8 glasses every day.

This is in addition to the fluid we get from the food we eat. All non-alcoholic drinks count, but water and lower-fat milk are healthier choices.

Try to avoid sugary soft and fizzy drinks that are high in added sugars and calories, and are also bad for teeth.

Even unsweetened fruit juice and smoothies are high in free sugar. Your combined total of drinks from fruit juice, vegetable juice and smoothies should not be more than 150ml a day – which is a small glass.

For example, if you have 150ml of orange juice and 150ml smoothie in one day, you'll have exceeded the recommendation by 150ml.

When the weather is warm, or when we get active, we may need more fluids.

Don't skip breakfast
Some people skip breakfast because they think it will help them lose weight. In fact, research shows that people who regularly eat breakfast are less likely to be overweight.

Breakfast has also been shown to have positive effects on children’s mental performance and increase their concentration throughout the morning.

A healthy breakfast is an important part of a balanced diet, and provides some of the vitamins and minerals we need for good health.

A wholegrain, lower-sugar cereal with fruit sliced over the top is a tasty and nutritious breakfast.
Eating out is a great way to catch up with friends, go on dates, and not have to do the dishes. The drawback is that restaurants often use a lot more salt and fat than you would at home. If you’ve ever seen a restaurant chef salt something, it looks like he or she is making it rain: Salt descends like it’s coming from the heavens, and there’s no doubt that winter is coming.

Why? Restaurants care more about making dishes taste good than they do about your health. Guests are more likely to write positive online reviews or recommend a restaurant to a friend because the food was delicious rather than because of how great you felt the next morning (unless you get food poisoning, but that’s a different story).

When I was on the road for four years as a restaurant inspector, eating multicourse meals several days a week, I immediately felt the effect of too much salt and fat on my body, no matter how good the meal was or how many Michelin stars the restaurant had. I realized that I needed to order wisely or I was going to feel terrible all the time (now, I find and share some of my favorite restaurants around the world on LokaPack).

I found that understanding what was in the food I was ordering gave me a better idea of what my body could handle, and I could make more informed decisions. I think it’s good to know that unless you are going to a health-focused restaurant, you’re already going to be eating more salt, fat, and overall calories than you probably would at home. And that’s OK. You’re going out to have fun and enjoy yourself, but it would be nice to also do that without feeling terrible the next day.

Here are some tips on how to navigate restaurant menus to order the healthier options.

Butter, salt, and restaurant basics.
Is butter bad?
While the battle over whether butter is good for you or not continues to rage, my main issue with restaurants is that you don’t always know the quality of the butter they are using (Is it grass-fed? Full of hormones?) and the amount. Butter is often used to baste foods, coat noodles, round out sauces, and so on. You can always ask what type of butter the restaurant is using, but in general, assume it's not the good-fat-rich kind you're used to.

Why worry about salt.
A certain amount of salt is necessary for the body, but too much can lead to health issues. Plus, you also don’t know what type and quality of salt restaurants are using when they make your food, which is one reason to be cautious when eating out. (Different types of salts have more nutrients, and you can use less to get more if the quality is high.) To learn more, check out The Meadow, a salt and chocolate store (incredible, right?) in Portland and NYC that offers over 120 kinds of salts, which you can also order online. The owner and salt connoisseur Mark Bitterman will gladly explain the difference in salt quality to you.

Quality of ingredients.
You’ll hear most chefs say it, but it’s really the quality of the ingredients that you start with that will predict the outcome of a meal. Fresher is always better. Start with a great piece of steak that’s been raised and butchered well, and a restaurant doesn’t have to do a ton to make it shine. On the flip side, poor-quality ingredients need to be doctored. And guess what two things will make them great? Fat and salt! Remember MSG? This is one thing it’s great at doing. I was once at a Hot Pot restaurant in Beijing and saw a bowl of shiny, pearly white crystals on the table. My friend told me that it was MSG for us to put on our food—crazy, right?

Salting individual components.
Throughout the cooking process, it is a common tool to salt as you go, tasting along the way to adjust the sauce or whatever you’re making. In restaurants, the components of dishes are seasoned individually, which is helpful so that they are balanced when they come together. The problem is that they are also often finished with salt at the end, which can sometimes be the touch that leaves your mouth parched and your face puffy the next day.
While Michelin inspectors refuse to order salads as part of their inspection process, I find them to be a great tell of a restaurant’s attention to quality because it’s hard to hide bad ingredients in a salad. When I have a great salad at a restaurant, I know that the rest of the meal will probably be equally good. With that said, try to avoid cream-based dressings and opt for citrus-based ones instead.

Fried foods:
Even the lightest tempura coating or quick-fry is likely to make you feel less-than-great, since most restaurants are reaching for inflammatory, Omega-6-rich oils rather than coconut, ghee, or avocado. Go for the whole steamed or grilled artichoke instead of the fried one topped with breadcrumbs.

Soups:
You can always ask your server if the soup has dairy in it and whether or not it’s just used to finish the dish for flavor. A good server will know how it’s prepared (was a vegetable or beef stock used?) and can always find out if not. For example, a lobster bisque will be richer based on its ingredients than a minestrone soup. The salt content can be difficult to gauge, though, and there’s not much you can do except find out the hard way.

Whole fish/seafood:
A grilled whole fish is always a good bet, especially if it’s in a more Mediterranean-style restaurant and finished with lemon, extra-virgin olive oil, and fresh herbs. Plus, it’s always fun to have a whole fish filleted in front of you—make sure not to skip the tender meat in the fish cheeks; they are the hidden gem of the fish. As always, pay attention to how it's prepared, and try to avoid heavy cream sauces.

Meats:
Watching a sizzling piece of meat pass you by may tempt you to share a porterhouse or rib-eye for two, but keep in mind that restaurants tend to opt for fattier cuts of meat. Fat equals flavor, and the more the better. Off the bat, you’re already picking a heavier meal than seafood. You also want to ask about the quality of meat you're getting: is it grass-fed? Grass-finished? If the chef and server don't know, you might be better off ordering a vegetable-based main.
Anything with a spice rub or mixture, be it a Cajun-style fish or spiced pork loin, will most likely contain a lot of salt as they are used to penetrate the meat and infuse it with flavor. Salt is great at doing that. It is a wonderful tool for cooking; unfortunately, your body might disagree the next day.

Eat your greens:
We all know that eating a large portion of vegetables is good for you, and it also helps fill you up and stops you from eating other foods. At restaurants, it’s good to ask how they are cooked and what they are cooked in so you have an idea of what you’re getting into. I try to always order a side of greens with anything I’m getting. By the end of a two-week stint in Paris, I was over heavy French food, and all I wanted was simply cooked fish and steamed broccoli from room service. After making it clear that I wanted both plain and lemon on the side, they were both served swimming in a pool of butter. I couldn’t catch a break!

Do you get the fries?
Unless they are going to blow your mind with their perfect level of crispiness and the exact cut and thickness that you love (to each their own on this one), then I would say no. Odds are that it will be salty and greasy—they are fried, after all.

The cheese plate:
If you’ve ever been at a restaurant where a cheese cart is wheeled in front of you, full of amber-hued Goudas, crumbly blue cheeses, and soft, milky white cheeses, then you realize it takes an almost superhuman power to resist. Here’s what I do: If the offerings include raw, unpasteurized cheeses, then try to get those, as they have the most good bacteria for your gut and hopefully won’t have you running to the bathroom. Alternatively, choose goat cheese, as it contains less lactose and is easier to digest for a lot of people.

Let's just look at the dessert menu.
You’re out having a great time and don’t want the meal to end, so why not take a look at the menu? At that point, it’s hard to skip the delicious-sounding hazelnut torte with hand-picked raspberries, chocolate sauce, and salted caramel ice cream. Anything with a crust or dough is not going to be your friend, as butter is abundant. Sorbet is obviously the easy, albeit sometimes boring option, but try to opt for desserts that have more fruits or other components to them so that you’re not just eating straight-up crust. If you’re craving chocolate but want to keep sugar down, chocolate mousse is actually a decent choice. It’s typically made with heavy cream, egg yolks, and unsweetened chocolate with minimal sugar added.
Kick-start your metabolism by including protein at breakfast, choose from eggs, salmon, lean ham or dairy. We burn more calories digesting protein rather than carbs so, by making your breakfast a protein one, you'll be revving up your metabolism and because protein keeps you fuller for longer, you'll eat fewer calories the rest of the day.

A protein breakfast needn't take any longer to prepare. Top your morning toast with a scrambled egg, a slice of smoked salmon or some lean ham and when you do have a little more time, enjoy an omelette or frittata.

Whatever you do, don't skip breakfast as this sets your blood sugar off on a roller-coaster that means you'll end up choosing the wrong foods later in the day. Remember breakfast makes an important contribution towards your daily intake and it plays a key role in maintaining a healthy weight.

Protein breakfast recipes:
Spinach protein pancakes
Mushroom baked eggs with squished tomatoes
One-pan summer eggs
Smoked salmon & mascarpone tortilla
Pear & blueberry breakfast bowl
Berry omelette
Dippy eggs with Marmite soldiers
Egg & tomato baps
Make lunch a mix of lean protein and starchy carbs. Carb-rich foods supply energy and without them you're more likely to suffer that classic mid-afternoon slump. The key is to choose carbs that produce a steady rise in blood sugar, which means passing on the sugary 'white' foods and going for high-fibre wholegrains that help you manage those afternoon munchies.
Satisfy that sweet craving and the need for energy with fruit. A handful of dried fruit combined with unsalted nuts or seeds provides protein and healthy fats to keep you satisfied till supper.
Don't curfew carbs. They're low in fat, fibre-rich and help you relax in the evening. Combine them with some healthy essential fats, the ones you find in oily fish like salmon, mackerel and sardines as well as nuts, seeds and their oils. Your body can use these healthy fats along with protein overnight for regeneration and repair, important for maintaining healthy skin and hair.

Fill half your plate with a colourful variety of vegetables or salad, drizzle with a dressing made from linseed or rapeseed oil and add meat, fish or beans with brown rice, quinoa or wholemeal pasta.

Healthful eating requires common sense, some pre-planning, and basic, sound nutrition knowledge. By following the guidelines listed below you will be able to meet your nutritional needs and maintain a healthy body weight.
Don't skip meals. Eat breakfast!
In fact, eat 3 - 6 times per day. Your metabolism will be more efficient and burn calories more effectively if you keep the "fires burning", so to speak, by eating every 3 - 5 hours. Eating small frequent meals will also help keep your blood sugar and energy levels steady. Visit ChooseMyPlate.gov to obtain a food group and portion size eating guide tailored just for you.
Be a mindful eater.
Resist the temptation to eat in front of the computer, while using your smart phone, or during reading, etc. You will get more satisfaction and pleasure out of your food if you pay attention to what you are eating! You may also be able to stop at the first sign of fullness and avoid overeating.
Include sources of carbohydrates, protein, and fat in all your meals and snacks.
Eating protein, complex carbohydrates and fruits and vegetables each day will help you meet your vitamin and mineral needs. Don't rely on supplements. Eat real food and use a multivitamin and mineral supplement only as added insurance.

Carbohydrates supply energy to the body in the form of glucose, which is the only energy source for red blood cells (carriers of oxygen for energy) and is the preferred energy source for your brain.  Fruits, vegetables, whole grains and fat-free or low-fat milk products are all important carbohydrate sources. Choose complex carbohydrates, like cooked, beans, peas, and lentils; whole grains and cereals like rice, bran, oats, couscous and barley; vegetables, including potatoes; and fruits.

Select low-fat protein foods like lean red meats; chicken and turkey breast without the skin that is baked, grilled or broiled; low or fat-free dairy products; eggs; fish and shellfish; cooked dried beans, peas and lentils; and tofu or other soy products. Including a protein source with meals or snacks will help feel satisfied and focused.

Fats in the form of liquid oils are necessary for a healthful diet and low intakes increase the risk of inadequate intakes of vitamin E and essential fatty acids. Enjoy sources of polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fatty acids such as fish, nuts, and vegetable oils.  Limit your intake of saturated fat from fried foods, and fats that are solid at room temperature like animal skins, hydrogenated oils, and whole milk products.

Eat your vegetables.
Eating 2 ½ - 4 ½ cups of fruits and vegetables daily along with other complex whole grain carbohydrates will give you the 20 - 30 grams of dietary fiber you need each day. It will also help you meet your vitamin and mineral needs. Any and all fruits and vegetables are encouraged; in particular choose dark green and orange colored fruits and veggies several times a week.
Remember: Water, Water, and Water!
Include a full glass of water with all your meals and take a water break a few times a day. If you do not like to drink water, try adding a lemon wedge, or choose sugar free/calorie free flavored waters instead.
Reduce:
Sugar
Foods high in sugar are often high in fat and calories and devoid of vitamins and minerals, thus the name "empty calories". Eating an excess of sweet foods can also contribute to tooth decay. The major source of added sugar in our diet comes regular soda, energy drinks, specialty coffee drinks, sports drinks and other fruit based beverages. Think your drink! There are as many as 17 teaspoons of sugar in one 20 ounce regular soda.

Salt
Limit your sodium intake to 2400 mg/day. That's the equivalent of approximately 1 teaspoon of salt. Remember to count the sodium that's already in the foods you are eating, not just what you add at the table. Learn to look at the Nutrition Facts Label. Choose foods that are low in sodium, less that 140 mg or 5 % daily value (%DV) per serving.

Caffeine
Caffeine gives you immediate energy, but you will pay for it with a rebound drop-off in energy later on. Remember we get energy only from the foods we eat.  Caffeine in the late afternoon and evening can interfere with a good night’s sleep.

Alcohol
If you drink, drink in moderation. Moderation means no more than 5 servings of alcohol spread out over a week (not all at once). A serving is 1.5 ounces of pure alcohol, one 12 ounce beer, or one 5 ounce glass of wine. Excessive drinking can lead not only to health problems, but also to excessive weight gain.
Swap your chocolate or cereal bar for a handful of dried apple rings with a few almonds or walnuts. Dried fruit is four times as sweet as its fresh equivalent, which is great if you've got an exercise class or a gym session planned for the afternoon. Combining dried fruit with nuts helps stabilise the release of their sugars keeping you energised for longer. Alternatively stock your fridge with plenty of low-calorie nibbles like cherry tomatoes, apples and vegetable crudités that will prevent you reaching for the biscuit tin when you fancy something sweet or crunchy.
Opt for an open rye-bread sandwich topped with salmon, chicken or lower fat dairy as well as plenty of salad, or choose wholegrain toast topped with baked beans.
Mid-morning snack
Many people find eating little and often helps them manage their blood sugar levels. This doesn't mean they eat more but instead spread their day's intake evenly throughout the day. Make every snack count with nourishing options that supply both the 'pick me up' you need while topping up your five-a-day.

Swap your morning biscuits for oatcakes spread with peanut or almond nut butter and a banana, or have a tasty dip with veggie sticks.
All of this aside—remember that eating out is something meant to be enjoyed and, if you go in informed and make good decisions, then that’s all that matters.
Ragu or meat-based sauces:
Sauces that contain any type of cured meat that has been salted before or a braised meat like pork shoulder will inherently include a high amount of salt before it’s even placed in a dish with other ingredients and later salted.
It’s hard to know what on the menu will or will not have a finishing oil, as it’s likely that most dishes get hit with it as well as a final dose of high-quality salt. Pay attention to cookbooks written by chefs, and you’ll see that they often recommend finishing sauces, pastas, soups, etc., with a final drizzle of oil. This is to add flavor by using a high-quality oil, plus, it adds more fat, and fat tastes good on the palate.
