  Have you ever watched as the teacher would ask a question in class and then before you could even understand what the question was about, some student already had their hand in the air with the answer? Some people just plain seem to have race car brains. They get to the finish line, they answer really, really fast. Other people like me have what you might call hiker brains. They get to the finish line but because they're walking, they get there much, much more slowly. With the race car driver, they do get to the finish line a lot faster, but everything goes by in a rush. [NOISE] They're also on a set, smooth roadway. They know exactly where they're going. A hiker on the other hand, moves slowly. But while they're hiking, they can reach out. They can touch the leaves on the trees, smell the air, hear the birds. And they can easily veer off the expected path into places where people don't normally go. The race car brain and the hiker brain, in other words have two completely different experiences. And even though the hiker brain may move much more slowly sometimes, because of how it works it can see more deeply. My hero in science is a man named Santiago Ramon y Cajal. Ramon y Cajal won the Nobel Prize in 1906, for his pioneering work in helping us understand the structure of the nervous system. Ramon y Cajal is considered the father of modern neuroscience. But here is where it gets really interesting, Ramon y Cajal was not a genius. He said so himself and he wasn't just being humble. However, Ramon y Cajal worked with geniuses. He found they often shared similar problems. For example, these geniuses with their race car brains [NOISE] were used to jumping ahead to speedy conclusions. And when they were incorrect, they weren't use to changing their minds. So they keep charging ahead with the incorrect conclusion they jumped to, their super fast brains could easily devise justification. Because they weren't really looking to prove themselves wrong. Ramon y Cajal himself though had a persistent hiker type brain. He'd come up with a hypothesis and then he'd persistently check it out in a way that would reveal whether he was wrong. Instead of just trying to prove that he was right. If he was wrong, he changed his mind and flexibly try again. So was his persistence and his flexibility in the face of what the data was truly telling him that made him superstar researcher. It wasn't his genius. This kind of phenomena is seen in many different fields. For example, super smart people don't make very good hostage negotiators. Why? Because they go into the hostage situation with their own preconceived notions, which are sometimes dead wrong. And then when critical information does reveal itself, they can't flexibly change their mind and take advantage of that information. So if you have a race car brain just be aware, one of your biggest assets can become your biggest liability if you get too used to thinking you're always right, and that you're the smartest person around. And if you have a hiker type brain rejoice, there's much for you to contribute in the world with your slow, sometimes very unexpected way of approaching things.  We should take a few minutes here to touch on the differences between men and women when it comes to natural passions. A biggie here is the hormone testosterone. Testosterone has lots of effects, especially on guys, because guys have lots more of it. Testosterone makes for mustaches, and maybe a bit more cocky behavior, and all sorts of guy things that I tend to kind of like. Even in the womb, guys generally have lots more testosterone than gals. Okay, here I want to show a chart that reveals how testosterone makes a difference in the development of boys and girls math abilities. Well, [LAUGH] obviously, there isn't really an effect. Where testosterone does have an effect, at least early on, is in verbal abilities. As infants and children develop, it turns out that testosterone can serve as a sort of developmental drag on verbal abilities. So little boys, who have more testosterone, tend on average to get a bit delayed behind girls in their verbal development. This is part of why girls, on average, are more verbally advanced than boys. Remember, boys and girls are roughly equivalent on average in their math and science skills. But when you start to put things together, on average, a girl can look within herself and her own abilities and say, hey, you know what, I'm kind of better at verbal sorts of things. And it's true. A boy, on the other hand, can look within himself, and say, hey, I'm a little better at math kind of things and that's true too. And all of these happen even though girls and boys have roughly the same basic ability to do math. Keep in mind that this is just an average. Individuals can vary quite a bit. And while boys can catch up later in their verbal development, by then, their self image has already begun to solidify. We often develop passions about what we're really good at. As it turns out, it seems easier for girls to get good at subjects requiring strong verbal skills. For boys, quantitative subjects can seem easier than those involving verbal skills. Remember, again this is even though boys and girls have roughly the same basic abilities to do math and science. Unfortunately, what all this does mean is that girls frequent big advantage. Their more advanced verbal skills can inadvertently also serve as a disadvantage. Because of their early verbal advantage, women can sometimes come to believe that their passions lie in language-oriented areas which accounts for part of the reason that there are a fewer women in the technical and scientific fields. Despite the fact that women, as well as men, are strongly needed in those fields. Passions develop about what we're good at but some things take longer for us to get good at. In fact, research has shown that if something seems hard for us, we can actually learn it better than if it was straightforward and easy. All of this can have a bearing on what career paths we tend to choose, especially when we hear advice like, follow your passion which is often taken to mean, do what comes easiest for you. In the discussion forum, describe what you've done or plan to do to broaden your passions in learning, going beyond what you feel you're naturally good at. You can help inspire us all. I'm Barbara Oakley, happy Mindshift.    The Fengjia Night Market in Taichung, Taiwan is really famous. They have just about everything you could imagine. One evening, you could have also found me there. I ended up at the stall that sold something called stinky tofu. I mean, stinky tofu is really stinky. The reality is, though, it tastes pretty good, kind of like a strong cheese. The thing is, you watching me tell you about stinky tofu is very different from you actually going to the famed Fengjia night market yourself and tasting stinky tofu. It's only when you actively do something yourself that you're learning really sticks. Trust me, I'll never forget about stinky tofu. You might think that taking an active approach to learning is totally obvious. But not only do students often not get this. Even professional teachers and professors themselves often don't get this, although it goes right to the heart of how we can most effectively learn and change. It's easy even for someone like me who knows better to sometimes take the easier path and avoid being active in what I'm trying to learn. Active learning applies to any kind of learning, whether it's learning about stinky tofu, leaning how to speak French, or learning to play the piano. It also applies to learning in math and science. This paper right here gathered together the results of some 200 studies on active learning in science, technology, engineering, and math programs. Turns out that one in three people drop out of these kinds of courses if they are taught in the traditional way with the professor droning away in the front of the classroom. But only one in five students drops from their course if it's taught with a professor using active learning, where the students get to actively work the problems themselves. In other words, the best teachers build breaks into their lectures so that students can actively work with the materials. Now, if you're a professor or teacher, and you think well, there's just no time for this just remember that speaking fast and covering a lot of material doesn't mean that the students are actually learning the material. There are guidelines that can help you cover the material even while your students are actively learning in your classroom. I once had a student who was flunking my engineering statistics class. When I questioned him about it, he said it was because his English was bad. He spoke English as an additional language. But actually his English was great. It turned out that he just wasn't taking the time to actively work through the problems himself. He was fooling himself. Looking at worked out solutions right in front of him and thinking he knew how to solve them himself. He also wasn't working actively with his team. Once we corrected that problem, and he started working actively with the problems himself, checking them with others, he began to do much better. As one of the artists for this MOOC told me, only watching tutorials and avoiding the actual practice is a big problem with art students who are trying to teach themselves. As another example, let's look at how I helped to construct the MOOC, Learning How to Learn. I'd never done any camera work or editing before. I watched YouTube clips to learn how to edit videos and that helped me to get started. But it was only when I started actively editing videos myself in conjunction with watching the YouTube instructions, that it really began to stick. One trick I've learned as a teacher is to deliberately put my hands behind my back when I'm trying to show something to students. It helps keep me from reaching out and doing whatever I'm trying to ask the student to do. For example, it's always tempting for me to write an equation or adjust the setting myself, because I already know it, and I can do it much more quickly. I even do this hands-behind-the-back technique as a mom and as a grandma. So as a learner, if someone tries to show you by writing or doing it themselves, try to gently push them away so that you are doing it. More generally do your best to take charge of whatever you're learning about to put a pen or pencil to paper to take quizzes, to do assignments, get your hands on it. So you can actively master the material yourself. Be an active group member in collaborative testing or any group project or assignment. In other words, test, test, test yourself all the time on anything you really want to learn. If the book's just open there in front of you or the video is just played right before you, you think you know it, but you don't. Only when you close the book or turn away from the video and test yourself by seeing if you can do it yourself, do you really know that you know it. Now, here comes the fade to white, you know what's coming. Okay, that in video quiz question was totally easy. But we put it there just because it helps reinforce a vital point and start an effective study habit in this MOOC. Actually, good quiz questions can be super helpful for tamping down your knowledge, which is why it helps to take quizzes. If you have one hour of studying versus one hour of taking a test, you'll actually learn far more when taking the test, even if you don't get the answers to the test, and even if you fail the test and don't know the answers. Well, at least then you know exactly what questions you want to find the answers to the next time you sit down to study. You can't actively do everything in every course all the time. From time to time, all of us especially me [SOUND] are distracted by our wandering minds. [SOUND] But the more you make use of active learning about the key aspects of a material, the better your ability to change your thinking to make a MindShift. It can take more effort to learn actively, so do not be surprised if your brain sometimes finds excuses to shy away from active learning. Incidentally, working with others is another way of grappling actively with the material, so that's why it can be so helpful to interact on the discussion forms. In fact, talking with others is probably more pleasant than any other kind of active learning. Anyway, all of this is what is really important for you to actively work through the exercises we're suggesting. And sometimes to interact with others to get the most out of this course, or to get the most of any subject you're trying to master. Incidentally, MOOCs like this one can be better than just watching a television show about what you're trying to learn. That's because MOOCs give you the opportunity to actively practice with the material, and interact with others, as well as just listen to your professor. So remember, in this course, and every subject or area where you really want to master the material, keep yourself working actively. I'm Barbara Oakley. Happy MindShift.  Thomas Kuhn was a detective. He wasn't your ordinary detective. For one thing, he'd gotten his doctorate in physics from Harvard University. For another, after he'd gotten his doctorate, he'd done a major mind shift and morphed to become a historian of science. He held professorships at the University of California, Berkeley, then at Princeton, and finally at MIT. Kuhn was interested in the process of how science unfolds. Is it just a steady accumulation of bits and pieces that gradually build our understanding of the real world? Or, is it more punctuated? A breakthrough here, a breakthrough there? Interestingly, Kuhn found there's a lot of what's called normal science. Normal science takes an idea or approach and fleshes it out to build our knowledge base. Normal science is like pottering along with Isaac Newton's theories about how the universe works. Or with the idea that stress causes gastric ulcers. An idea that virtually every scientist working in the field took for granted. But every once in a while, what can be called a paradigm shift happens. Basically someone takes the same information that everyone else sees, sort of like seeing a duck. See the beak right here? And they interpret it, they see it in a completely different way. They suddenly see, for example, that the duck can also be a rabbit. See how the rabbit ears point upwards? So as science unfolds, there are periods of normal science. Expanding the knowledge base using normal methodology. Physicists might use Newton's laws to calculate the motion of the planets. Scientists might work to have a better understanding of the acidic environment of the stomach. Knowledge expands out in the usual way as scientists do their work. But, as science is marching placidly along someone comes along who's able to see things in a brand new way. A paradigm shift. For example, Einstein was able to see through the usual Newtonian physics, to view the universe in a different, more relativistic way. And Nobel Prize winner Barry Marshall famously gave himself an ulcer, along with some very bad breath, by drinking a concoction of the bacteria Helicobacter pylori. So that he could convince his critics that it was bacteria, not stress, that was the primary cause of ulcers. So indeed, the scientific process unfolds with punctuations. Periods of normal science that are then interrupted by a paradigm shift which shapes how normal science continues to unfold, until the next paradigm shift. And so on. Paradigm shifts allow us to have enormous new gains in our creative understanding of the world. So what kind of people make paradigm shifts? Those kinds of mind shifts that allowed them to see the world around them in new ways? Kuhn found that there were two types of mind shifters. One type was young people, people who hadn't yet been indoctrinated into seeing the world in the same way that everybody else did. With their youthful eyes, they can see with fresh perspectives. Now, if you don't qualify as a young person, you're probably thinking, that knocks me out then! I'm not in my teens or 20s, so no breakthroughs for me. But hang on. There was a second group of people. People who were older but who were just as innovative as those young people. These were people who had switched disciplines or careers. It was the change in focus, the career switch, that allowed the second older group to see with fresh eyes. Often, it allowed them to bring their seemingly unrelated prior knowledge to the table in new ways that helped them to innovate. These insights from science can also help us understand creativity and innovation in our everyday lives and careers. Let's take me. In my late teens and early 20s, I learned Russian. Then in my late 20s, I decided to start learning math and science. You might think that my time spent learning Russian was a waste. It wouldn't help once I switched my focus to engineering. But that's actually not at all true. Learning Russian gave me a lot of the insight about the learning process more generally. And I found that learning insight that I'd gained, transferred to help me be better in learning math and science. The same repetition, deliberate practice on the hard stuff, and flexible interleaving that helped me to successfully learn Russian and helped me to be successful when I started to begin to learn math and science. We see this phenomenon constantly in many fields. A background in sports can come in handy in a marketing career. Insights from a former career as an event planner can help you be a better software programmer. A hobby playing action-style video games can actually sharpen your mind and even your eyesight. Head towards the discussion forum after this video and tell others about the unexpected assets you've brought into your work from your past seemingly unconnected knowledge. Feel free to also tell others how you've broken through initial feelings of incompetence on your way to learning something new. As you post your own thoughts, you'll be surprised to find the fantastic and inspirational stories of others. Old or young, you may feel like you have a childlike incompetence when you're learning something new or you're changing disciplines or careers. This is very typical. But keep in mind that the feelings of incompetence will gradually pass. The creative power that you can bring to the table because of your willingness to change can be invaluable. It might even lead you to start a paradigm shift of your own.    I started to try to take physics in my Senior year of high school, but I was flunking so badly, they finally took me out of the class. I stayed away from science and math as much as I possibly could. Why would I punish myself by trying to study subjects I obviously had no talent for? Of course, the fact that I'm now a professor of engineering tells you I was dead wrong about what I could develop a talent for. Some people do find some subjects easier to learn than others. But say, if your brother seems naturally smarter than you at math, this doesn't mean you can't learn the subject yourself. In fact, you may actually sometimes be even more creative than your brother with math, because you're using a different set of neural circuits than he is. When we go through school, we tend to focus on areas that we're thought to be good at. If we happen to find math easy and English more difficult, for example, we'll tend to take more math courses, if we can, and take fewer English courses. After all, taking English could hurt our grade point average. And if we're better at English, and not so good at math, we'll focus on English courses and skip the math. This means we tend to get more practice at what we're already kind of good at, so we get even better at it. But the flip side is, we don't get as much practice in other areas and so we tend to lag behind in them. And if we do go to college, where we have to pick a major, this tendency is sharpened even further. All this relates to a concept called mastery learning. In old-fashioned instruction, the kind you've probably experienced in school, all the students in a class are given the same amount of instruction time to learn the material. In mastery learning, on the other hand, it's understood that different students may need different amounts of instruction time and different amounts of practice in order to master the material, even though they all eventually do master the material. In fact, research is showing the value of mastery learning, where you can retake quiz variants over and over again, until you feel comfortable with the material. You can re-watch lectures if you need to, or even get different explanations of the material. This approach, as researchers are discovering, is one of the best methods for helping people to gain expertise, even with material they never thought they could learn before. There's all sorts of evidence of how, once you begin practicing in some area, your brain starts to develop the new neural architecture that supports your learning. I once met a taxi driver in London who'd been a complete failure in high school. But he'd spent several years studying for the London taxi driver's examination, which is a very intense test where thousands of different routes must be internalized. After he passed, he began realizing that his brain seemed different. He could focus and concentrate more effectively. And indeed, research has shown that by studying for the London taxi driver test and then actually practicing his spatial abilities as a driver, this fellow was able to fundamentally change his brain, increasing the size of his hippocampus, an important area in learning. What's great is that these new forms of online learning, such as MOOCs like this one, allow for mastery learning. In fact, you can actually even flunk classes completely and still turn out to be a successful learner. Pat Bowden, for example, is a retired bank officer from Queensland, Australia. Her husband mentioned MOOC-taking as a hobby for her retirement. Pat saw it as a chance to learn about and master subjects she hadn't been able to study when she was younger. >> I've always been interested in astronomy, so I decided to do an astronomy MOOC. Soon we were into forces, gravity, and sending rockets to Mars. By week two, I was lost. I hadn't done any physics for 40 years and failed the course. But it didn't stop me. Instead of complex calculations, I let the heavy physics flow right past as I chose which videos to watch purely for interest. It was enlightening to realize I didn't have to pass the course. I could still learn something from it. Later I tried another astronomy course, and then another, and yes, finally I passed. Sometimes, I take a MOOC more than once to consolidate my knowledge. Completing a course is very fulfilling, but no one else needs to know if you give up on one. Taking notes really helps me understand and get more out of a course. So far, I've completed 71 MOOCs, and failed or not finished about 15 more. >> And Do Edmond Sanou is a third-year statistics student from Burkina Faso. >> Online classes are both interesting and relaxing. I choose when I want to take classes. I can also replay videos until I understand the key ideas. I can't do that with my teachers in a regular class. Online is the best way I found to learn new skills. >> Overall, then, it helps to remember that any kind of learning is a little bit like learning to drive a car. You may not have the abilities of Ayrton Senna, the brilliant Brazilian race car driver who, after a lot of practice, became one of the greatest Formula One drivers of all time. But that certainly doesn't mean that you can't or shouldn't learn to drive if you have the opportunity. Some people may take longer to learn to drive than others. But most people, including me, can learn to drive. And you can use those driving skills to drive to some wonderful places. Learning is for everyone, and online learning makes some of the best approaches to learning, like mastery learning, much easier.    In our previous MOOC, Learning How to Learn, we described the two very different modes of operation of the brain, focused and diffuse. Focused, if you'll remember, is when you're concentrating. Diffuse is when you're not thinking about anything at all in particular. We used a pinball machine metaphor to explain these two different modes. In the focused mode, the rubber bumpers of the brain were closer together, while in the diffuse mode, they were farther apart. Your thoughts could bounce further, by analogy, this is why when you're focusing hard on a problem, you sometimes get stuck within the tight spaces of the bumpers. And you can't see another, better way to approach the problem. We also described the importance of developing a library of neural chunks. Well practiced, mental patterns, that you can easily draw into your mind. This is all part of the process of gaining expertise in a subject. Metaphors and analogies can make learning super simple. Remember, these metaphors and analogies often just serve to give us a sense of key ideas. Whenever we've reached the limits of an analogy for helping us to understand something, we can always just throw that analogy away and pick up a new one. Of course, there's often many different analogies that we can use to explain any concept. So let's review, while having a little fun by describing the focus and diffuse modes using some different analogies. It turns out that your brain puts its energy, for the most part, into either the focused mode or the diffuse mode. It can't be in both modes at same time, not unless you're ingesting certain forms of mushrooms and we're certainly not suggesting you do that. Focused mode is what happens when you concentrate, it turns on virtually instantly. Diffuse mode, on the other hand, is when you're not concentrating on anything. Instead, it's when your thoughts are moving randomly, like when you're sitting on a bus, standing in a shower or going for a walk. Diffuse mode kind of sneaks up on you, you're often not aware of having fallen into the diffuse mode. So, let's look a little more closely at what's going on in the focused versus the diffuse modes. Here's a top scale view looking down onto your brain, you can see the little ears right here, and the nose is on the top. And we know that the brain is kind of like a set of networks, this is the focused mode network. Look how small those little meshes are, these are sometimes called task positive networks. Because different parts of the networks are activated depending on what task you're working on. Multiplication say, versus conjugating a verb in Spanish or kicking a soccer ball. What we call the diffuse mode is like a different set of networks, with much bigger meshes. Diffuse mode is actually a catchall term that we use to signify any of the neural resting states. The most prominent resting state, incidentally, is called the default mode network. The thing about the diffuse mode, is that it helps us to make these intuitive leaps, connections between new ideas you didn't realize were connected. The diffuse mode has another purpose as well, it's the mode we fall into when we're trying to consolidate and understand new information. We'll get to that in just a minute, the diffuse mode only turns on when you aren't thinking about anything in particular. So you can't just concentrate and turn it on like you can with the focused mode. But the relaxed, diffuse mode, is the mode that often does that background processing that helps us solve difficult problems and understand difficult concepts. This is why, when you're concentrating intently on something, and you find yourself getting really frustrated, the best thing you can do is often to get your concentration off what you're trying to understand. Getting your attention off the topic helps open up the very different diffuse mode networks, and lets your brain find new paths for thinking about what you're trying to understand. Then, when you later return to focusing, you'll find yourself in a better place, mentally. The problem or the concept will suddenly start to make sense. Incidentally, the habit of writing down a problem that you're trying to solve before going to bed will help you calm your mind and let your nighttime brain think of a solution. There's actually another, very different way, to think about focused and diffuse modes and that's using something called an excavator. When you focus on something, your mind is in receiving mode, information is pouring in. When you're in diffuse mode, on the other hand, your brain is turning around, so to speak, and placing that new information in other parts of your brain. Organizing and making sense of the new material, you can only be in one mode at the same time. The inputting focused mode or the organizing, diffuse mode, where the brain is consolidating that information. This is why it's really important to take little study breaks, and give yourself time where you're not focusing on the material at hand. The little break is what helps the brain consolidate the new information so it can later think more creatively about it. Go ahead, take a little break now, try to move around a little while you do it. You'll be surprised at how much it refreshes you.    What would you like research to tell you? Would you like it to say it's okay to listen to music when you're studying? Or would you rather that research would find that it's better not to listen to music when you're studying? Let's pause for a moment to take a survey and see what you think. I have a little insight for you. Whatever you wanted that research to tell you, whether it was to listen to music or not to listen to music, you can find research that will back you up. Here's what we do know. If the music is fast and loud, it disrupts reading comprehension, in part because you use some of the same areas of the brain to process music as you do to process language. Also, music with lyrics is more distracting than music without lyrics. On the other hand, researchers have found that if you're listening to a favorite style of music it could enhance your studies. Or if it's something you don't like it could detract. In the final analysis, all this means that when it comes to music you should use commonsense and discover what works best for you.  When we're studying we often drink caffeine, which enhances focus by diminishing the day dreaming alpha waves in our brain. This effect is strongest for about an hour after drinking a cup of coffee or tea. Although the energizing can persist about eight hours, which is why it's sometimes better to avoid that evening cup of coffee. But when you're doing something that is cognitively difficult, coffee isn't the only booster. You're often subconsciously using other tricks to increase your focus. For example, if you're trying to remember something, you tend to avert your gaze. Which avoids overloading your working memory with unnecessary extra visual information from your environment. Even just closing your eyes can help you ignore distractors when you're trying to bring something to mind. Let's be honest here. Memorizing comes more easily for some people than others. Researchers still aren't quite sure why, although there's some evidence that having the right genes helps. But believe it or not, being a good memorizer can cause problems. In medical schools for example, when there's a big anatomy test, ordinary medical students spend weeks preparing. They will practice over and over again to memorize thousands of terms in their related functions. Gifted memorizers, on the other hand, can procrastinate until just a few days before the test, spend a few hours glancing over the material, and they can still do well. However, when these same memorizing aces are faced with a different type of medical school exam, for example a test related to how the heart functions, they find that just a few hours of last minute cramming just don't cut it. Medical school advisors can sometimes be startled to find these seemingly star students flunking certain sections of the curriculum. It seems that quickly memorizing anatomical terms related to the heart doesn't allow you to understand and answer questions about the heart's complex function. This is a reminder that simple focused concentration in memorization often isn't enough when we're trying to understand a complicated issue. It takes time to understand complicated systems. Whether we're trying to understand how to put together a new lighting rig, [LAUGH] figuring out a pumping system of a human heart, or analyzing the multifaceted causes of World War II. To untangle such complicated subjects, we often need to alternate a tight focus on the issue at hand with steps back to look at the bigger picture. Our need for occasional distraction during any given learning session may arise from these competing type focus versus big picture kinds of needs. Basically, it's focused versus diffuse modes. The focus mode is primarily centered in the prefrontal cortex, the front part of the brain. The diffuse mode, on the other hand, involves a network connecting more wide spread areas of the brain. The more extensive nature of diffused thinking is why it's often related to the unexpected connections that lie at the heart of creativity. Activities involving the diffuse mode like walking, or riding a bus, relaxing, or falling asleep, are more likely to lead you to creative ideas that can seem to arise from nowhere. If we're in a very quiet environment, that quietness can hype up the focused mode attention circuits while simultaneously deactivating the diffuse mode. This is why quiet environments are ideal when we're doing something that demands full concentrated attention, like doing our taxes or working on a difficult problem on a test. But sometimes we're trying to understand bigger picture sorts of issues like cardiac function or computer network connectivity. In that case, a little sporadic noise, like a snippet of conversation with or the clatter of dishes in the back round of a coffee shop can help. This is because that bit of noise temporarily allows the longer range diffuse network to pop up. So, we briefly get a new perspective. This is so effective that there are even apps with coffee shop sounds. In the discussion forum, you might want to describe some of your favorite ideas for places to study and unexpected apps that have helped your learning. Of course, there can come a point when there's just too much noise, which can keep you from concentrating at all. Finding a good learning environment can take a bit of exploration. But that's good because it keeps you from getting too accustomed to any one study place, which can make your learning more effective.    What do you feel when you walk into a cathedral? Light is streaming in through the stained glass. The ceiling soars above your head. Cavernous echoes create a sense of a vast space. It smells old. Compared to the world outside, your brain tells you that this space is sacred. It makes you feel different. It elicits different thoughts. You are different person inside the cathedral. Now walk in to a stadium filled with 100,000 fans for a football game. The sights are brighter than outside the stadium, and the sounds are much louder. >> [APPLAUSE] >> The crowd roars when a goal is stored. You are caught up in the emotional moment. This is why we still go to live sporting events, even though the camera angles are much, much better on TV. These experiences have an impact on your brain. Whether you immerse yourself in a quiet, contemplative environment, or a hyper-stimulated one, you are changing your thought patterns, and that changes your brain. Different emotional states, different memories, different brain. Is your environment helping you to achieve our goals? Sometimes even small changes in your environment can lead to big differences over time. The Salk Institute for Biological Studies where I work is a special place. As you approach the Salk Institute from outside, it looks like a concrete fortress. But as you enter the central courtyard, there is a dramatic change. A broad expands of travertine stretches out to the Pacific Ocean with towers rising along the sides, anchoring the other worldly space. The Salk Institute was designed by Louis Khan, a famous architect working together with Jonas Salk, who invented the vaccine that cured polio in the 1950s. The building is an architectural landmark. Jonas was a medical researcher but he founded an institute whose mission was basic science. Our motto, cures begin here. Salk reinvented himself as a visionary, and wanted his institute to inspire the researchers working there to make important scientific breakthroughs, and we have. I am inspired every day when I arrive for work. The entrance opens onto the tea room, the heart of my lab. Students in my lab come from many countries and have diverse backgrounds. And they all gather around the tea table every day at 3:30. Some of the most important scientific ideas from my lab arose from tea time discussions. The ceilings in my lab are 10 feet high. Studies have shown that people think and act differently in environments with high ceilings. They think more freely and abstractly. People in a room with low ceilings are more likely to focus on the specifics. All of these factors are important for building a community of passionate and creative researchers. Now let's walk into a hospital. They are remarkably similar in their layout in every city and almost all countries. In 2004, I attended a workshop in Woods Hole, Massachusetts sponsored by the Academy of Neuroscience for Architecture that explored the design of health care facilities. The workshop was an eye opener. Based on what we know about environments that promote health and healing, modern hospitals could not be more badly designed. Look! First, let's look at the lighting. Many studies have shown that lighting has a pervasive effect on physiology and behavior. Outdoor light promotes arousal. Dark indoor lighting provokes inactivity. Large windows with views of nature encourage healing. Rooms with small windows overlooking parking lots are depressing. The sickest patients are sent to the intensive care unit, where there are no windows, and the light is kept at the same level all day long. We have a circadian clock that regulates awake and sleep cycles, which are entrained by bright light. When you travel to a distant time zone you feel disoriented for days until your circadian clock has shifted. Putting a patient into constant lighting untethers their brain, making it clueless about the time of day. Sound is also an important part of the healing environment. Alarms can go off any time of the day or night in a hospital to alert the staff of an emergency. This also alarms the brains of the sick people who have enough to worry about without a menacing sound. Good nutrition is essential to building a strong body and healthy brain. I have eaten some of the worst food ever in hospitals, unhealthy choices, poorly prepared, go figure. Finally and above all, it is stressful to live in an unpredictable environment. The privacy of hospital patients can be invaded any time of the day or night for an examination, a teaching moment, a blood draw, or even more invasive procedures. If you were worried about your health before arriving at a hospital, the environment there will amplify your worries. Look around you and notice your environment. Is it conducive to your goals? Is there a way that it can be changed? Sometimes, just changing your walking route can brighten your surroundings.    Horses have been horses the way we know them today for hundreds of thousands of years. In previous evolutionary times, people just ate them, along with buffalo and pretty much any other big game they came across. But about 6,000 years ago, when people figured out that horses could actually be ridden instead of just eaten, the human world started changing dramatically. Suddenly, people could get from place to place a lot more easily, a lot more easily. And this had profound effects on the development of human societies. For example, in the late Middle Ages, the Mongol Empire grew to be one of the largest empires in history, in part because of the tough, scruffy Mongolian horses they used in battle. This is why some argue that the simple idea of the stirrup on a horse's saddle, which gave much greater stability for the rider, was as important an invention as the printing press. We can see the power of the horse even in the recent centuries. In the 1700s for example, in the Midwestern plains of the United States, an extraordinary people came into prominence, the Native American group known as the Comanche. They commanded vast swathes of land in what is now Texas, New Mexico, Colorado, and Oklahoma. The Comanche took the culture of the horse to one of the highest levels in human history. Their equine expertise astonished all who knew them. They could outride pretty much anyone, hooking their legs across their ponies' backs and firing arrows under their ponies' necks, keeping their enemies at bay, while using their horse as a protective cover. In the 1700's in fact, all around the world, there were a myriad of jobs that related to horses. Blacksmiths were needed for horses' shoes and to fashion stirrups and bits. There was a demand for wagon, cart, buggy, plow, and harness makers, riders, drivers, couriers, herders. Even if you weren't making or doing something directly related to horses, you still needed to be able to handle a horse, whether you were a monarch, a mercenary or a minister. Horses were an important part of almost everyone's lives, as important in some ways as the computer or smartphone is today. But of course, eras and cultures change. From the horse, we eventually transitioned to the automobile, and all sorts of technologies begin to arise based on the internal combustion engine, from snowmobiles to bulldozers, to jet aircraft. Communications began to play a powerful role too, with the emergence first of the telegraph, then the telephone, and then television, satellites, and of course the Internet. And electrical power and safe, clean sources for that power are still of prime importance. So we're living nowadays in a world that's very unlike that of the 1700s. But what our development sense then shows is that people's abilities to learn new things and to grapple with new ideas, to make mindshifts, are the key element in producing vibrant and creative societies, and in helping people to live to their full potential. It's important to be able to match your aspirations and passions with the opportunities that surround you today, as well as the opportunities that will unfold in the days, months and years to come. You want to look at yourself, your career, your knowledge base, with the same sort of big picture perspective that we've just used to consider the development of human societies over the last few centuries. One idea in particular is especially important, which is that whatever skill set and knowledge base you may already have related to your career, your family and children, or your hobbies, it's vital to keep in mind that we're living in a world where at least some passing knowledge of computers, technology, math and science is as important as the knowledge of horsemanship was in centuries gone by. Everyone needs passion in their lives, things you like and enjoy and are good at, but an important part of what we'll be talking about in this MOOC is broadening your passions. That is, we want to encourage you to explore new directions in learning that might not have felt comfortable for you before. If you're a natural techie type, we want to encourage you to broaden your passions and skill set into non-technical areas. Maybe public speaking, or writing, or art. If you're a non-techie type, we'd like to encourage you to go the other way, towards gathering some analytical and technical skills in your arsenal. Whatever your age and whatever your previous training, you want to be able to be flexible and open, and to be able to change and adapt in today's much more rapidly changing world. Mindshift is a MOOC designed to provide a framework for your change, even as you remain true to yourself.    I'm Barbara Oakley. >> And I'm Terry Sejnowski. Welcome to Mindshift. >> We created the MOOC: Learning How to Learn which to our surprise became the world's largest and most popular MOOC, to give you the specifics about how to learn more effectively. In this MOOC, we're going to grow things even bigger, so you can learn not only more effectively but more broadly. In other words, we will help you to develop a learning lifestyle. >> Who you are today, is not the same person who went to sleep last night. We now know, that your experiences during the day are integrated into your brain circuits while you are asleep. So, that you wake up in the morning, your brain is updated. You can take advantage of this to become a different person than you were last week, or last month, or last year because you brain is different and you can guide the process. >> To begin with, I'm going to tell you about one of the worst things that's ever happened to me. Something that cause one of my biggest most embarrassing failures. [SOUND]. Yes, everybody, including me, has failures and false starts. Now, you may know that I basically flunked my way through elementary, middle and High school Math and Science. When I was young, the only thing I thought I could do. The only thing I was interested in was trying to learn a new language. Any new language since all I spoke was English. If you speak English as an additional language you are so lucky. So, that's why I enlisted in the army right out of High school, because the military would actually pay me to learn a new language. Although, I wasn't of Russian heritage, I decided to learn Russian, and I did learn Russian. The army even gave me a scholarship, and I got my first degree, a bachelors degree in slavic languages and literature. I was all set, as a language expert I expected to go into military intelligence. To use my skills, that was pretty much the only place my new language skills could be used. Didn't happen, it like. Really didn't happen, they only put me into the signal corps. That meant, that I would be responsible for all sorts of electrical communication systems. From cables, and telephones, to advanced electrical switching systems. I was horrified. And it wasn't like I was some kind of brilliant, intellectual superstar who turned it all around and charged ahead to immediately excel anyway. In fact, I graduated last in my class in signal officer training school. I didn't even know what a volt was, much less than how a telephone worked. Here I was stalking a field I hated, doing a job I couldn't really understand. I was so terrible at my job, that we all eventually agreed that I should move into something far less technical. Those four years as a military officer were very difficult. I was lonely, stationed thousands of miles from my home and family. And well, I was a failure. What's funny about this, is that it's actually one of the best things that's ever happened to me. Believe it or not, I'm now a professor of engineering and I love my job. In this MOOC, we're going to talk about what I learned on the path to my change in thinking, my mind shift. We're going to talk not only about some of the changes I've experienced. And inspirational and insightful stories of other people's growth and change. But, we're also going to be exploring what science is telling us about how we can change. This course is about how you can do and be much more than you ever might think. It's about how you can grow from failure to success. It's about how you can broaden your horizons and be more than you ever thought you could be, no matter what your age, or your past. It's about how you'll feel better and be healthier because of a learning lifestyle. And, it's about how to look around you, at what you're learning, in your place, in what's unfolding in the society around you. So you can be what you want to be, given the real world constraints that life puts on us all. No, this isn't a course based on magic, where we promise to somehow turn you into a genius and make all your wishes for learning and careers come true. But you'll see, that by using certain mental tricks and insights you can often learn more and do more. Far more than you might have ever dreamed, we'll talk about what science tells us about how we learn and change. We'll build on what you already know to take your life's learning fantastic new directions. You might think, well, I've taken aptitude tests. The experts are telling me what I should be doing. And besides, I can feel inside what I'm good at. But remember, all those aptitude tests and internal feelings are just reflections of what you're good at right now. They don't give you a clue about how you can shift and shifting your thinking, mind shift is what this course is all about. Are you ready? Lets get started.    We sometimes fool ourselves about our good attributes with relation to learning. We think they're bad. We saw that with the race car brains verses the hiker brains. Being a slow hiker type thinker can give you an advantage because you can be less likely to jump to conclusions and more able to flexibly change your mind when you're wrong. But there's another advantageous attribute that we often think is bad, and that is a poor memory. The reality is that a poor memory has a valuable side to it. Let's review the key idea. We know that the prefrontal cortex has roughly four slots of working memory. This means we can hold a maximum of about four neural chunks of information in those slots when we focus our attention. Chunks can be simple, like those related to numbers, the notes that form a musical chord, or words or phrases in a foreign language. If we've practiced enough, we can build more complex neural chunks that we can easily pull into working memory and work with. The neural chunks are kind of like ribbons of thought. These neural chunks can also relate to more complicated ideas, like longer portions of a song, or a more complex equation. As you can see, these neural sort of chunks, ribbons, can, with practice, involve incredibly complex activities. Experts have lots of well practiced neural chunks that they can easily bring to mind. The key idea here is that when you first look at something to try to figure it out, your working memory in your prefrontal cortex is working very hard. But once you've understood that something and practiced enough with it to form a solid neural pattern, you've created a neural chunk. That's like that ribbon that you can easily draw into one slot of working memory, leaving the rest of your working memory free for other processing. And this is why, once we've practiced enough, beginning since we were toddlers, as adults, we can think a single thought, like walk towards the door, and walk, which is actually a very complex maneuver, without even continuing to think about it. Some people have working memories like steel traps, whatever ideas come before them can be easily retained in their working memories. This can make it easier for them to understand complex topics and solve complicated problems. But other people, like say, me, have not so good working memories. They may get something in mind, but then, shiny, they get distracted, and then some of what they were thinking about falls out their minds. But when that something falls out, something else comes in. And that's where creativity comes to play. Those new ideas that come willy nilly into your mind can be the source of creative new thoughts. And in fact, as we know from research, those with poor working memories are often more creative. Do you have to work harder to keep up with the steel trap memory types? Sure, but you wouldn't want to trade the asset that your poor memory gives you, that is your creativity. But digging deeper, a poor working memory means something else. As it turns out, a poor working memory gives you an effective tool to figure out simpler ways to do things. It may take you a while to figure those things out, but when you do figure them out, you can sometimes see elegant simplifications and brilliant shortcuts [LAUGH] that a person with a strong working memory just doesn't have the motivation to figure out. There's more. Andrew Wiles, for example, is a mathematical legend who, after 358 years of efforts by some of the world's leading mathematicians, at last proved Fermat's last theorem, has pointed out that you often need forgetting, as well as remembering, to help you solve problem. Forgetting helps you get past previous mistakes you might have made. Andrew's less than perfect memory, in other words, helped him to solve one of the world's most difficult problems. Remember, if you do have a poor working memory, you'll want to use memory tricks like the memory palace or learn to associate. For example, you can associate people's names with memorable images. In English, it turns out that we have the name Wanda. You can remember Wanda's name by imagining a magic wand. Or the name Phil, which sounds like the word fill in English, can be more easily remembered if you fill Phil's head with fizzy water. Putting motion into your visualization helps make things stick better in memory. Mental tricks can be very powerful tools. We'll cover some more mental tricks in the videos to come. But just a bit of insight now. Whether you have a good, or a not so good working memory, get yourself into the habit of making mind dumps of information that you do not need to keep online in your working memory. Every time you think of an errand, or something you need to remember, rather than holding it in working memory, commit to writing it down in a notebook or any other trusted inbox.  Who you hang out with strongly influences who you are. You will behave with more decorum in a group of serious scholars than with a group of drinking buddies. A colleague at Oxford University married a Danish woman once, and he told me his relationship with his wife changed once he learned Danish. They fell in love with each other speaking English. He wanted to learn Danish so he could get to know her better. When he spoke to his wife in Danish, he discovered she was a different person, and they fell out of love. Different languages, different personalities. Google once did an in-depth study to find out what factors went into making a successful team. Were the best teams made up of people with similar interests? Did it matter whether everyone was motivated by the same rewards? How often did teammates socialize outside their office? Did they have the same hobbies? Were their educational backgrounds similar? Was it better for all teammates to be outgoing, or for all of them to be shy? They started Project Aristotle to find out, and what they discovered was that none of these factors predicted success. For example, some successful teams had similar backgrounds, but others came from different backgrounds. Finally, they hit on one factor that predicted how well teams innovated. They called the factor "psychological safety". What was important was that the members of the team felt comfortable taking risks and sometimes failing. This encouraged team members to have interpersonal trust and to mutually respect everybody, feeling comfortable being themselves. The most successful teams had the most empathy. If you want to be successful working together with others, seek out those who are socially sensitive and can empathize with each other. Empathy can be enhanced by chemicals that affect brain chemistry. Ecstasy is a popular psychoactive drug taken at parties to enhance sociality. It produces a sense of well-being and happiness, including feelings of closeness with others, increased emotionality, enhanced sensation, and a sense of inner peace. Ecstasy causes a massive release of serotonin in the brain. Serotonin is one of the major neurochemical messengers found in the brain of every vertebrate, including ours. Neurons in the brain stem that manufacture serotonin project widely, influencing billions of neurons in the cerebral cortex - the most highly evolved part of the human brain. But there is also a downside to taking Ecstasy. Ecstasy releases most of the available serotonin in the brain and you become withdrawn, less social, for weeks that it takes to fully replenish your supply of serotonin. Prozac, a drug that is effective in treating some types of depression, also increases serotonin activity in humans by blocking the re-uptake of serotonin by neurons. Even many who do not suffer from clinical depression find that it lifts their mood, making them feel self-confident and more sociable. In contrast to Ecstasy, however, those who take Prozac only begin to feel better about themselves after many weeks of taking it, and the effects last much longer. Ecstasy, by contrast, alters serotonin levels very rapidly and depletes its stores, whereas Prozac causes a slower and longer term buildup in serotonin activity. Brain serotonin levels depend heavily on the environment. Lack of maternal care in nonhuman primates leads to reduced levels of serotonin, greater aggression, more alcohol consumption, and more anxiety-like behaviors during adolescence. Low levels of serotonin in stressed brains can make for a chemical tripwire for extreme and unpredictable violence. Low serotonin levels also spark a cycle of aggressive behavior and social illiteracy that sets up a child for school failure and peer rejection. Inmates in jail for violent crimes have some of the lowest levels of serotonin activity in society. Your social brain is swimming in a sea of neuromodulators, like serotonin, that affect your temperament. The set points are determined during development, and depend on early experience, but they can be changed by moving to a new environment, where you are surrounded by different people. Choose friends and coworkers who have aspirations that fit into your goals.  We often face real challenges in our life between what we want to do, our passion and what kinds of opportunities there are out there in the working world. Let's take me, for example, as a young person. I had an absolute passion to study linguistics and to learn another language. Like many young people, I was a little headstrong. My father, on the other hand, kept saying, you can't easily get a job in linguistics. He nudged me towards learning something science-based. After all, he had had a great career as a veterinarian. I couldn't afford to go to the university on my own back then. College loans weren't easily available, but there was one way to learn the language and actually get paid for it and that was to join the army. That's why at 18, I began studying Russian at the Defense Language Institute. I was convinced that my father was wrong. And somehow, I'd find a great career for myself doing what I loved, but that's also how I found myself at age 26 in a career dead end. Although the military taught me a lot, when I decided to leave the military and return to the civilian world, I discovered I'd inadvertently put myself in a sort of trap. There wasn't a lot of call for people whose only professional skill was the ability to speak Russian and who knew little else. Much as I love the Russian language, I had put my focus on developing one single skill without thinking about how much that skill was really needed in the working world and without thinking about whether other skills might complement and enhance my ability to get the kinds of jobs I wanted to have. This is part of what I call the Passion Trap. We're often encouraged to follow our passions by well meaning people, friends and teachers, especially who don't themselves have to suffer the consequences of long term difficulties in getting a job. Friends after all, often want to make you happy right now. So, they'll often tell you what they think you want to hear. Teachers have a job teaching about their passion. This means that they benefit from encouraging you to take the classes and even aim towards their professions even if the chances of you actually getting a job related to that profession are minimal. On the other hand, parents, much like my father are often only focused on your finding a successful career. They can be less concerned about what you feel are your internal passions, especially if they, themselves have had a difficult life and they know how hard it can be to make a comfortable living. This push and pull between our internal passions, and the needs of the working world isn't something that just relates to young people. We often feel these forces throughout our lives. There are internal desires, the external needs of the world and many different influences from our family, our friends and our teachers and mentors. There is no one single answer to all this, but there are thoughtful ways to address this challenge as you think about your career and your approach to life long learning. Thinking visually about your talents can be helpful. That's what we'll cover in the next video.    [SOUND]   Most people think about their career development as taking the form of a sort of a T. So you have your arms out, and the T going down. In other words, you have one heavy-duty skill, that's the downward part of the T, and you complement it by taking some superficial knowledge of other things. That's the initial approach I took to my career. I learned Russian, and also learned a smattering of other skills, like how to type, how to drive [SOUND] a truck. The challenge of course, is that I found myself without too many opportunities. But there's another way to think about careers. That's the pi approach, which is promoted by Patrick Tay, an elected member of Singapore's Parliament. Notice that this career approach has sort of two legs, gives you more balance, right? And you have one main skill, say accounting, but you also want to supplement that with knowledge in another area, say counselling. The second area may be directly related or it may be quite different from the first. If time and money are tight, you should try to build your second skill out of what you're already familiar with. When I went to look at second skilling myself, I took a clue from what I'd witnessed in the military. Having at least some technical competence in your skills toolkit often means you have more opportunities. So that was a big push for me towards getting a second set of skills in engineering. Even though I didn't think I had any passion or talent for engineering. To my surprise, when I began getting better at my engineering studies, I began to realize I liked engineering and I found something more. My previous background as a linguist actually enhanced my studies of engineering and my ability as engineer. I'd learned about chunking and interleaving and deliberate practice. In other words, I'd learned how to learn. I thought more creatively about my engineering studies because of my passion for language. There are many examples of people becoming successful at their passion only because they stopped focusing directly and solely on that passion, and instead began incorporating real world considerations. For example, writer Scott Turow initially had trouble making it as an author. So he took a step sideways instead to attend law school. The real world expertise he acquired as a lawyer gave his fiction extraordinary power. His books have since sold more than 30 million copies around the world. As you know, my hero in science is the father of modern neuroscience, Santiago Ramon y Cajal. Cajal's father was a doctor who pushed his son hard towards becoming a doctor, but Cajal himself wanted to be an artist. Here it was, Spain in the 1860s, and the arguments between a parent and child were the same as they are today. Cajal's father pointed out that it was almost impossible to make a living as an artist but Cajal resisted strongly. Until, that is, Cajal finally realized that the real world is important. In fact, he was going nowhere fast. Finally, he began turning his attention towards working to become a doctor. It was very difficult for him. He flunked some major examinations, but he kept trying. However, he never forgot his passion for art. In fact, he brought that artistic passion into his study of medicine which ultimately played an important role in helping Cajal win the Nobel Prize. So remember, you can bring a second skill into your work because of your passion, or simply because it enhances or complements your first skill. You may have to spend some parts of your life focusing on one thing in order to get deep skilling in that area, but you don't have to give up on your passion. In fact, your passion can greatly enhance your creative ability in your other skill. In the end, it's never a good idea to just blindly follow your passion. In fact, look at the real world and work to both follow and broaden your passions. Your life will be greatly enriched.    In the last video we talked about careers and skills as being either t-shaped, with only one deep skill, or pi-shaped with two areas of emphasis. But of course there are other ways to think about careers and skills and don't forget that hobbies can also play a role in your life of learning. Not do they make you happy, they help keep your brain fresh and agile. Sometimes they can even end up enhancing your career. For example, one of my hobbies is to watch a bit of television in the evenings with my husband, Phil. And this help me develop insights over the years about how the video medium looks and works, which in turn has helped me to build better MOOCs. But look at how other people think about building their skill sets. Scott Adams, who's the creator of the famous Dilbert cartoon, points out that he's got mediocre skills in a lot of areas. He's a second grade artist, with reasonable writing, business, marketing, and social media skills. Put all those middling skills together, however, and it becomes clearer why Adams has been so successful as a cartoonist. His overall talent stack is terrific, even if he's not particularly good at any one area. Many individuals focus on acquiring a specific skill, say, a certain programming language. But they forget that other skills, such as being able to speak humorously and effectively, can add formidable value to their talents stack. US sales entrepreneur Rodney Grim for example, keeps his focus on his broad profession in selling electronics. As he points out. >> I'm a jack of all trades. While this limits me from truly excelling at one thing in particular. It also serves as a strong defense in a technological world where the rate of change is only accelerated. I've been an electronics technician, a programmer, a salesman. I also own my own business. And I shift my roles drawing on my background as opportunity and change dictate. >> Brian Brookshire who's worked as an online marketing specialist, looks at second-skilling from a related perspective. >> To tell the truth, often there really isn't that much difference between someone who's been on the job for six months and someone who's been working that same job for six years. So second skilling doesn't need to be as difficult as you might think. Skill development careers are typically logarithmic and not linear. Which means that, while developing deep expertise may take a long time, often, you can rapidly accelerate to the point of diminishing returns in a fairly short period of time. And this is often good enough to get a toehold in a new area. Personally, I find that I really enjoy requiring lots of new skills because of that thrill you get with the initial rush of progress. >> Sometimes you might find yourself blocked when you're aiming for a certain career. For example, Princess Allotey, couldn't afford to go full time to the university to study the mathematics she loved. >> So I intend to give back to my community. I volunteered as a math teaching assistant, and I taught kids math in Ghana. I certainly proved language can improve things for kids in Ghana. And I ended up going around Ghana making presentations. Surprisingly, I developed this skill what I always wanted to do enough, and that was public speaking. >> Intishar Rashad from Bangladesh has also made the most of a startling change of fortune. >> When I graduated from high school, I decided to go into the military to become an air force engineer. However, due to an accident, I suffered a severe spine injury and it seemed to ruin my potential career choice. Instead of losing hope, I changed my mindset and now I'm a medical student focusing on a career in medicine. >> So if you're blocked, either temporarily or permanently in what you want to learn or do, that's often a great opportunity to second skill yourself, or do something else that's equally exciting or fulfilling. Once you started learning the new skill, you'll often be surprised to see the powerful enhancement it makes with relation to your preexisting skills. And remember, non-academic topics can be invaluable assets to your career. For example, Singapore entrepreneur, Adam Koo, found that his skills in magic And in DJing, completely unrelated to his degree in business, have taught him a lot about how to effectively engage with audiences. The result, he now runs one of Southeast Asia's largest private educational institutions training to tens of thousands each year. In the end, it's always important to keep your mind open and to keep learning. This is the best way to ensure your skills don't become obsolete. Read, take MOOCS, and take courses and seminars to keep yourself prepared, no matter what twists or turns your career may take. Do you have a skill or hobby that's been overlooked but that could be valuable? Are there new technical areas you could start now to gradually learn about that you've previously dismissed as being something you wouldn't be able to do? Head on over to the discussion forum and let us know about some of your hidden talent, potential and desires. And get ideas from the hidden talent and potential of others.    One tough challenge is deciding when young people should be directed towards a specific career, because this decision can have reverberations that can last throughout people's lives. In some parts of the world, students are sorted into career paths early on. At age 16, for example, they may be sent to either vocational training for the skilled trades or towards more academically oriented training. In other parts of the world, this choice is sometimes delayed. There are advantages and disadvantages to each of these approaches. People choose career paths for all sorts of reasons. In some countries, the parents often make the choice, regardless of what their kids want to do. In other countries, the students themselves often make the choice, despite the fact that they may have almost no real world experience with the job choice they're making. Or sometimes, people simply come from a background where they've had no previous access to quality education or even to any proper education at all, which means that their career choices are limited from the outset. Or people can be on a very wisely chosen career path but then once they're exposed to new opportunities and insights, they may want to change. Career change, and change of all kinds, is easier to do in some countries and cultures than others. And, of course, it can be easier to jump from some disciplines than others, age is also a factor. But as you probably gathered, my own sense is that well thought out career change, and change of any kind, whether a small shift to acquire a different set of skills that enhance your abilities to do your job within your company, or a major shift to a new career. Forms of vitally important, creative fuel for all societies. One of the biggest hurdles to changing career paths or a change of any sort can be well meaning friends, parents, and colleagues. It's not like this sort of push back from others is necessarily a bad thing. It makes you consider your choice very carefully. One important rule of thumb, is to avoid going into debt while learning new skills at the field you're hoping to move into is poorly paid. There's something very wrong in spending a large amount to acquire a new knowledge or new skills, only to be poorly paid when you ultimately get out on the job. If you are considering career change or even simple second skilling, here are a few tips for dealing with the push back from others, who might want you to stay the way you are. With the dabble approach, you simply start gradually learning in the new area, either online, through reading or by taking local classes. This is a slow approach. But it can also help ensure that you, yourself, can gradually grow with the change, which will make the transition less jarring for all involved. The double life approach is much more intense than dabbling. With this approach, you basically compartmentalize your life and avoid talking to people about what you're trying to do. This can be a more stressful way to tackle your change, but it can have an advantage. It can prevent others from trying to talk you out of your goals because you'll appear to be continuing just as usual. For example, you may continue working as a musician while you're taking side courses to prepare you for a career in health care. And then there's being a contrarian. Take pride in being a contrarian. The more others say you will fail, the more it can help bolster your internal resolve. Keep in mind, however, that it's important to choose reachable and doable interim goals and check points to assess your progress. For example, if you tried as hard as you can, but repeatedly get very low scores on the test to get into medical school, it maybe time to reassess your dream of going to medical school. >> And don't forget that who you are is not just you. Who you are also depends on your environment. This means, that by changing your environment, you can speed up the process of mind shifting. I shifted from physics to biology by immersing myself in the best neuroscience environment I could find. I picked up a lot of facts, but much more important, was what I learned by osmosis without conscious awareness of what it was I was learning. I learned how to think like a biologists, by being around biologists and interacting with them. I did make a conscious effort not to fall back on what I had been, a physicist and mindset and skills of a physics. I took a vow of physics poverty to remain open to what was new around me rather than revert back to the old thought patterns. This approach also works for learning a new language, you get to observe the culture along with the language. >> In your attempts at career change, you don't want to minimize important considerations. Like whether you've got at least the basics of what it might take to succeed. Be willing to solicit and listen to valid criticism about how you can change and improve. You don't want to be like the cluelessly bad karaoke singer, warbling haplessly into the night because his friends always told him he was great. If you are a friend, parent, or mentor, of a potential mind shifter, try your best to remain open to other people's ability to change. And if you're the one who's making the change yourself, count yourself lucky if those around you are supportive, and use the opportunity to enjoy your new learning path.    If you have long term goals in a difficult to master area, one of the best things you can do is to immerse yourself in what you're learning. For example, if you're planning to become successful in the restaurant business, one of the best things you can do is to get experience in every aspect of restauranting that you possibly can, from busing tables, to serving, to managing accounts. Without this kind of experience, it can be a lot easier to make mistakes that allow your future business to fail. This may seem obvious, but sometimes the cockiness that helps fuel and, results from our success in one area can go to our heads. Even eminent scientists, for example, have been known to fail disastrously when they tried to jump into a new area without getting themselves properly prepared. My co-instructor, Terry Sejnowski, for example, took these ideas into account when he switched from the study of physics to the study of neuroscience. >> I was advised to get neurons under my fingernails. I worked hard over years to master the biology I needed to truly understand the new discipline I was moving into. At the same time, I practiced selective ignorance. I knew that my expertise with computers, a rare asset in the late 1970s, could mean that I'd be dragged into computer related work that would keep me away from the biology I needed to master. So I vowed not to touch a computer during those years, giving me time to focus on the biology that I needed to master. >> Selective ignorance, then, is another important career tip. You want to master all the details that you can that will support you in what you're trying to learn or do. But at the same time, you don't want to simply start being used by other people as a tool for their own work. Marketing specialist, Bryan Brookshire, has some additional insight along these lines. >> I told a former boss that I wanted to learn how to do everything at the company and her reply was, don't do that. You've got to cultivate selective ignorance because if you know how to do everything, then you become everybody's go to person and that can interfere with getting your own work done, and that turned out to be pretty good advice. Cultivating selective ignorance has often prevented me from getting drafted into projects that I had no interest in participating in, or time for. >> So there you have it, general competence, along with selective ignorance are two important keys for career success.    The imposter syndrome is that feeling that you're not as good or as talented as the other people around you. It's actually a very common feeling, especially if you're venturing into a new or different area. Often, feeling like an imposter makes you afraid that you won't be able to succeed at whatever tasks lay before you. After all, you think, if everyone around you is somehow more talented or knowledgeable, what chance do you have to succeed? These feelings can make the tasks ahead of you seem even more formidable and difficult. Your mind tells you, you only got to where you are because of good luck, and you suspect that good luck might not be enough to continue to propel yourself forward to success. Psychologists often say that feeling like an imposter is a bad thing, and you should just stop feeling like that. But here's an important point. Doubting yourself isn't always bad. It can keep you more open and flexible to seeing and doing what you need to do to succeed. And in fact, people who are open to self doubt tend to be more successful in the long run. Why is this? As it turns out, people can tend to fail, not so much from under confidence, but from overconfidence. History is filled with the stories of business executives, generals, and politicians who only listen to others when they reinforce their own convictions. These leaders then steer with blithe abandon towards disaster. Doubt, of course, can be overdone, but it can also be undervalued. In fact, if you're full of doubt, that means you have a mindset that leaves you more open to what's going on around you. It can spur you on to try harder, and as we know in this course, it's persistence and flexibility that can be what matters most in the long run, not genius. It's natural that most of us except, perhaps, the most brash and narcissistic can fall occasional pray to feeling like an imposter. Accepting that these feelings are normal and re-framing them to our advantage forms a healthy way to move forward.    Wherever you are in your career path, whether young, mid-career, or even in retirement, it can help to keep your eye on the big picture of societal trends in relation to your special skills. When I was young I followed my passion into a box of having a single special skill, the ability to speak a second language. I didn't think or plan to complement that ability with other skills that could give me more flexibility in the job marketplace. We know that language and culture are important. But in today's society, technological, scientific, and mathematical literacy and expertise are of increasing importance, as well. So if you have a soft-skill area of interest, it can be a good idea to balance that with some technical or analytical skills. But likewise, if you already have sharp analytical skills, it can be a good idea to enhance your talent stack by working on your soft skills such as speaking ability or writing. On a side note, I wish I had a dollar for every older student I've had in my engineering classes, who like me, followed their passion, and spent a lot of money to get a first degree in a subject that was difficult to get a good job at. I'm not saying engineering is the only field to study, although I will admit to a little bias for engineering as good general training in today's society. But be aware how easy it can be during the career selection process to fall into a [SOUND] sheeple mentality. Where you and your friends don't find out until it's too late that you've put yourself into decades of debt studying a favorite subject that's better off as a hobby than as a career. What if you get fired or laid off from a job? A valuable point to keep in mind here is what I'll call, the golden rule of career catastrophes. And that is, it is never as bad as you think it is at the time and there is always a silver lining. [SOUND] Almost always as a result of being either fired or laid off, you ultimately find yourself happier in the long run. Even Pete Best, who was kicked out of the great band The Beatles, right before they went on to world fame, was able to find a wonderful silver lining in his career catastrophe. After his ousting from the band, he would go on to meet his wife, the great love of his life. Keep in mind that it's not usually a good idea to become too settled for too many years doing the same job. You can slip into a career rut that can be difficult to get out of. Even if you're doing a variety of activities for your work, your mind can still be following into the route or rut. Which means it can gently be moving towards stagnation. In any case, you may think you have the perfect career, but things can change in a heartbeat. One simple swap in management can mean an upheaval. Even great scientists like Francis Crick, the Nobel Prize winning co-discoverer of DNA made a point of changing his area of focus to keep himself fresh as he grew older. At age 60 he switched from the study of molecular biology to the study of consciousness. This is something like spending your life as a construction worker and then deciding you're going to switch to become an expert in creating great embroidery. The result, Crick's lively intellect retained its sharp ability to focus until his dying day.    You maybe surprised to learn that some of your worst traits can sometimes be some of your best traits. This means that when you get down on yourself for some of your bad characteristics, it's a good idea to start reframing your thinking. In this video, we'll help you get started. Let's take for our first example having a poor working memory. As we've already mentioned, having a poor working memory often indicates that you're more creative. When something falls out of the slots of your working memory, something else tends to pop in. Do you have to work harder to keep up with people who have that steel trap sort of memory? Sure, but you wouldn't want to give up the joyful advantages that your creativity gives you. And of course, people with less capable working memories are more likely to see short cuts and to have conceptual breakthroughs. Poor working memory incidentally is often correlated with Attention Deficit Disorder. So if this condition is making your learning tougher for you, it's important to realize it also gives you advantages. You may argue that a strong working memory not only helps with problem solving, it also helps with getting good grades but research has shown that there's a counter correlation between school grades and creativity. In other words, sometimes the better your grades, the worse your creativity. For some reason my fellow professors who were usually the best of the best students seem to get annoyed with me when I bring up that little factoid. Maybe that's also the origin of the old saying, the A students end up working for the C students. But there's also a correlation between disagreeableness and creativity. It may simply be that disagreeable people are more willing to be brats, to throw aside that compliant deferential behavior of their more agreeable peers. Are you a contrarian? That too can serve as an advantage when everyone's telling you you just can't succeed, you're contrarian nature combined with a little bit of common sense can be just the ticket to prove them wrong. What about being a worrier? Well, as a worrier myself, I'll be the first to admit that worrying has got some unhealthy aspects to it. But anxiety can allow you to anticipate possibilities by mentally reviewing different scenarios even if they're negative. And that's not all bad. Doing a bit of worrying and then reframing your thoughts to calm your brain in the ways we've discussed earlier is a great way to go. And how about being a naive dreamer? If you're naive, it's a nice idea to partner and work with more practical people. But a little bit of naive dreaming helps keep the world moving forward on a positive note. No one would want to give that up. Based on all of this, what seemingly bad characteristic do you have that might have a good side to them? Join the discussion forum and let other people know and see what intriguing traits other people have.    For a long time, emotions were considered unreliable compared with cognition. This has all changed in the last few decades. Emotions are important for social interactions, learning, and decision making. Emotions are complex brain states, associated with positive and negative experiences, and they are accompanied by facial expressions. Darwin wrote a book about visual expression as a form of communication that is important for survival, and natural selection. Paul Ekman is the world's leading expert on facial expression. He was the real world inspiration for Cal Lightman in the TV drama series Lie to me, although Paul is lot nicer person than Cal. Ekman went to Papua New Guinea to find out if pre-industrial cultures responded emotionally with the same facial expressions that we do. He found six universal expressions of emotion in all human societies that he studied. Happiness, sadness, anger, surprise, fear, and disgust. Emotions are typically slow in onset and can last for a long time. Can you remember the last time that you got angry? How long did the angry mood last? There are groups of neurons very deep in the brain stem called neuromodulatory systems that control your levels of arousal, motivation, and attention. Last week, we saw that one of them, the serotonin system, was important for regulating social interactions. Another brain stem system that fans out over wide regions of the brain, uses a chemical called noradrenaline. Edronax is a drug that works along the lines of Prozac, except that it is a reuptake inhibitor for noradrenaline, and it increases its activity. It could be more effective than Prozac in helping patients who are depressed and lack the capacity for sustained motivation. Whereas, serotonin activation results in serenity and mellowness, noradrenaline activity is involved in increasing drive motivation. When a closely related molecule manufactured in your adrenal gland, called adrenaline, is released in your blood, it makes your heart pound faster and prepares your body for vigorous physical activity, paralleling the increase in mental activity triggered by noradrenaline inside the brain. Is depression caused by imbalances in serotonin or in noradrenaline? These ancient neural systems interact with one another like players in an orchestra. So part of a serotonergic drug's efficacy, may be indirect by altering levels of noradrenaline. This interaction complicates the search for effective treatments for mental disorders, and reminds us, that although we talk about this or that chemical system, brain systems are deeply integrated. There is another powerful motivational system in the brain that uses dopamine, and is centered in the few groups of cells in the midbrain. This system of dopamine neurons underlies both the motivational and the emotional facets of extraversion. High dopamine levels puts people in a good mood, energizes some people to seek out new worlds, and to go boldly where no one has gone before. But not too high a level since that leads to Tourette Syndrome, characterized by uncontrolled ballistic movements, and a blue streak of swear words, which you can imagine on your own. Your dopamine neurons can be interrogated when you need to make a decision. What should I order from the menu? You imagine each item, and your dopamine cells provide an estimate of the expected reward. Should I marry this person? Your dopamine cells will give you a gut opinion that is more trustworthy than reasoning. Problems with many incommensurate dimensions are the most difficult to decide. For example, how do you trade off a sense of humor, a good dimension, with being messy, a bad dimension? Or hundreds of other comparisons. Your reward system reduces all these dimensions down to a common currency, the transient dopamine signal. Dopamine is a central part of reinforcement learning, which occurs when you associate a sensory input with a reward. Such as Pavlov's dog, in which food odors are are associated with salivation. Dopamine is released in the brain when an unexpected reward occurs, and dopamine levels are reduced from baseline, when an expected reward is not received. Dopamine neurons receive inputs from a part of the brain called the basal ganglia, which evaluates cortical states and assigns value to them, and is involved with learning sequences of motor actions to achieve a goal. Although this form of learning might seem simple, it has now been shown that reinforcement learning is the basis for the most powerful artificial intelligence system ever created. It is not just your cognitive systems, but also the impetus provided by your emotional systems that make you intelligent. Go is an ancient game that is highly popular in Asia. The 19 by 19 Go board is much larger than the 8 by 8 chessboard, which makes it possible to have several battles raging in different parts of the board, white against black pieces, vying for territory. Go is to chess in difficulty, as chess is to checkers. If chess is a battle, Go is a war. It has been thought that Go was so difficult that no computer program could ever play at championship level. However, this changed when the Korean Go world champion played a match with AlphaGo, a program based on reinforcement learning that played itself many millions of times. It came as a shock to many when AlphaGo won the first three games, winning the match, and exhibiting an an unexpectedly high level of play. The three neuromodulatory systems based on serotonin, noradrenaline, and dopamine interact strongly with the emotional systems in the brain. Without them, we would not be human. With them, we are able to form social bonds, evaluate dangerous situations, and learn new skills. I often wondered why Spock, on Star Trek, had such a flat affect. Could it be his neuromodulators were low? Think about it.    We hear a lot nowadays about meditation and mindfulness. So inquiring minds often want to know what effect meditation can have on learning. First, let's back up a step. What is meditation? It's really just a way of bringing about different modes of consciousness using a variety of different techniques. For example, meditators may close their eyes and repeat a mantra, control their breathing, or deliberately cultivate a certain emotional state. Scientific research on meditation is still in it's infancy. But researchers can sometimes classify meditation techniques into two different types that seem to be fundamentally different [SOUND]. Focused attention and open monitoring. Given what we've learned already, my guess that these two types of meditation relate to the two different types of basic modes of the brain uses to perceive the world, focused and diffuse. And you'd be right. Focused attention types of meditations such as mantra, sound or chakra meditation appear to help enhance focus mode type thinking, this kind of meditation sometimes seems to make people feel better. It can help reduce feelings of depression and anxiety, even while it builds concentration abilities. In contrast, open monitoring types of meditation such as, vipassana and mindfulness, appear to improve diffuse imaginative thinking. With open monitoring, we don't just focus on one thing. Instead we keep our attention open to all aspects of experience without judging or becoming attached to our thoughts. Now we know that diffuse mode thinking is more wide ranging, your thoughts [SOUND] can bounce pretty much anywhere. Daydreaming happens in the diffuse mode, daydreaming not only gives rise to more random thoughts and connections that underpin creativity. It also helps you plan for the future, since your thoughts tend to wander towards what the future might bring, sounds great, right? Well, not entirely. The diffuse mode is also affiliated with anxiety and depression. Think about it this way. If your mind is bouncing all over the place, it can get drawn into worry [SOUND] about, whoa, things that might go wrong. [LAUGH] Part of the reason that building your focusing abilities may help make you feel happier is that it appears to suppress the diffuse mode, while it builds the focusing mode. So what does all this mean? It means that meditation can have surprisingly different effects, depending on the type. It's all very complex, and researchers are far from sorting everything out yet. In the end, practices that encourage focusing can be a great benefit for learning. But having some daily time where your mind relaxes and wanders freely is also very important, particularly if you want to encourage creativity. From a practical standpoint then if you are a meditator you might try to avoid feeling you should always be steering your thoughts back into focus if you catch your mind wandering outside meditation sessions. This might be why people find the pomodoro technique so useful for combining creativity with productivity. It's a sort of working meditation. Up next, we'll look at some of the deeper aspects of the pomodoro technique.    There are very good reasons to always keep learning throughout your life. We know that there are some 1,400 new neurons that are born everyday in your hippocampus. You can see your brain's hippocampus in red right here. While this image here is actually of a growing neuron. You can see the expansion and the new linkages as it's growing. There's only a modest decline in your neural birth rate as you age. But unless your brain continues to encounter new experiences, which often means learning something new, your new neurons will die off before they mature and hook into that larger neural network. They're kind of like vines that languish and die because there's no trellis. In adults, new neurons allow us to distinguish between similar experiences and store them as distinct memories. This means that for new learning, as well as for mental health, it's important to help new neurons be born, survive, and thrive. Of course, we know that physical exercise is one of the most powerful medications we know of that helps produce new neurons. It's as if exercise scatters these sorts of seeds that become neural sprouts. Learning is like water and fertilizer that encourages the growth of those new neural sprouts. The younger you are, the more likely it is that anything you experience is new. As you age it gets easier to fall into a rut. Even when you tell yourself you are learning something new, it's often just a slight riff on something you already know. Learning that makes an impact on the brain often means going just a bit beyond your comfort zone. A useful way to allow new neurons to survive, thrive, and make those new connections is to do something truly new and different every day. This automatically presents your brain with novel experiences. These novel experiences can be as simple as using your left hand to brush your teeth if you're right handed, or just sitting in a different chair at the dinner table. This is also why travel can be so incredibly invigorating. It helps keep the brain tuned up, especially if you do your best to immerse yourself in the new culture and surroundings. Learning a foreign language when you're older may be especially worthwhile, because the areas of the brain that are positively affected by language learning include many of the areas that are negatively affected by aging. In brain terms if you don't use it, you can lose it, no matter how innate and natural your gifts may seem. Widely admired orator Robert Sobukwe who spoke so eloquently for the cause of liberation of black South Africans from the rule of apartheid was subjected to six years of solitary confinement in the same prison that housed Nelson Mandela on remote Robben Island. He could communicate with other prisoners only through furtive hand signals. During this terrible time Sobukwe could feel his powers of speech slipping away. Those who've spent extended periods at isolated locations with few opportunities to speak with others often find themselves stumbling through simple conversations upon their return to civilization. My husband Phil experienced this when he spent a year at remote Siple Station in Antarctica. Hobbies can also help keep us mentally tuned up, especially when those activities are combined with physical exercise. If you knit, sew, quilt, do plumbing or carpentry, play games, use your computer or read, for example, research shows you're more likely to have stronger cognitive ability as you age. These findings make sense. For example, measuring and cutting for either quilting or carpentry clearly help maintain your spatial abilities. There's also evidence that the more you keep up a learning lifestyle, especially as you grow older, the lower your long-term risk of devastating illnesses like Alzheimer's disease. Exercise, learning, and exposure to new environments can help create and nurture new neurons and synapses. These new synapses and neurons create what's called a cognitive reserve. When some synapses and neurons naturally disappear as part of the aging process, you've got others waiting in the wings that can take over the neural pathways and maintain your mental abilities. Researchers are uncovering new ways to help our brains maintain their youthful flexibility even as we age. You might be surprised to hear that action videos can actually be really helpful here. Eventually we may well see video games being prescribed by doctors. [SOUND]    There are very good reasons to always keep learning throughout your life. We know that there are some 1,400 new neurons that are born everyday in your hippocampus. You can see your brain's hippocampus in red right here. While this image here is actually of a growing neuron. You can see the expansion and the new linkages as it's growing. There's only a modest decline in your neural birth rate as you age. But unless your brain continues to encounter new experiences, which often means learning something new, your new neurons will die off before they mature and hook into that larger neural network. They're kind of like vines that languish and die because there's no trellis. In adults, new neurons allow us to distinguish between similar experiences and store them as distinct memories. This means that for new learning, as well as for mental health, it's important to help new neurons be born, survive, and thrive. Of course, we know that physical exercise is one of the most powerful medications we know of that helps produce new neurons. It's as if exercise scatters these sorts of seeds that become neural sprouts. Learning is like water and fertilizer that encourages the growth of those new neural sprouts. The younger you are, the more likely it is that anything you experience is new. As you age it gets easier to fall into a rut. Even when you tell yourself you are learning something new, it's often just a slight riff on something you already know. Learning that makes an impact on the brain often means going just a bit beyond your comfort zone. A useful way to allow new neurons to survive, thrive, and make those new connections is to do something truly new and different every day. This automatically presents your brain with novel experiences. These novel experiences can be as simple as using your left hand to brush your teeth if you're right handed, or just sitting in a different chair at the dinner table. This is also why travel can be so incredibly invigorating. It helps keep the brain tuned up, especially if you do your best to immerse yourself in the new culture and surroundings. Learning a foreign language when you're older may be especially worthwhile, because the areas of the brain that are positively affected by language learning include many of the areas that are negatively affected by aging. In brain terms if you don't use it, you can lose it, no matter how innate and natural your gifts may seem. Widely admired orator Robert Sobukwe who spoke so eloquently for the cause of liberation of black South Africans from the rule of apartheid was subjected to six years of solitary confinement in the same prison that housed Nelson Mandela on remote Robben Island. He could communicate with other prisoners only through furtive hand signals. During this terrible time Sobukwe could feel his powers of speech slipping away. Those who've spent extended periods at isolated locations with few opportunities to speak with others often find themselves stumbling through simple conversations upon their return to civilization. My husband Phil experienced this when he spent a year at remote Siple Station in Antarctica. Hobbies can also help keep us mentally tuned up, especially when those activities are combined with physical exercise. If you knit, sew, quilt, do plumbing or carpentry, play games, use your computer or read, for example, research shows you're more likely to have stronger cognitive ability as you age. These findings make sense. For example, measuring and cutting for either quilting or carpentry clearly help maintain your spatial abilities. There's also evidence that the more you keep up a learning lifestyle, especially as you grow older, the lower your long-term risk of devastating illnesses like Alzheimer's disease. Exercise, learning, and exposure to new environments can help create and nurture new neurons and synapses. These new synapses and neurons create what's called a cognitive reserve. When some synapses and neurons naturally disappear as part of the aging process, you've got others waiting in the wings that can take over the neural pathways and maintain your mental abilities. Researchers are uncovering new ways to help our brains maintain their youthful flexibility even as we age. You might be surprised to hear that action videos can actually be really helpful here. Eventually we may well see video games being prescribed by doctors. [SOUND]    The easiest way to decide whether an online learning experience is right for you is to check out an online ranking site. As I've mentioned before, I personally like to use classcentral.com. It has a smart way of comparing MOOCs across different platforms by letting you see people's reviews. Fun game-like aspects, and easy to follow course structure, and thoughtfully designed quizzes, tests, and projects are obviously important in any online course. But here are some other valuable MOOC making elements that can make a difference in how well you learn and how much you enjoy the learning process. Research has shown that if you watch a professor on a video for about 30 seconds, you can get a very good sense of how effective that professor actually is. Amazingly, even as little as six seconds can allow you to form an effective snap judgement, in part based on emotional micro expressions that are too fast to truly register. Look for approachable, encouraging, fun professors who can simplify the material and make the hard stuff look easy. It may seem obvious that all professors should be this way, but they aren't. It turns out that when we understand something through a metaphor, we're putting into action the same neural circuitry that we use to understand the in-depth concept itself. Traditional teachers sometimes believe that teaching through metaphor dumbs things down. Smart teachers, however, realize that metaphor and analogy can help students get an initial grasp of the materials much more quickly. Good online courses often use lots of vivid metaphors and analogies. Incidentally, if you yourself can come up with a metaphor, the sillier the better, it can often help you understand even difficult concepts like those in advanced calculus. Did you know that equations themselves are actually just metaphors? That's according to Emanuel Derman, one of the world's greatest mathematical modelers. Whenever a metaphor breaks down, throw it away and then just get a new one. Online materials with humor can help activate addictive dopamine circuits of pleasure. It also provides the mental equivalent of a sort of ledge to temporarily rest on and regain your breath when you're climbing an intellectual mountain. In my experience, humor's much more important in online courses than in face to face classes. If you have a competitive choice between a class that presents the material and a class that is funny while it presents the material, which one are you going to take? Look for well done visuals that relate directly to the material. A little clip art is understandable, but it shouldn't all just be clip art. If the instructor can't take the time to help develop illustrations, it tells you a lot about how invested that instructor and their institution are in the course. On the other hand, just slapping a complex textbook image on the screen also just doesn't cut it. People learn differently from videos than they do from books. Complex images need to appear part by part. You'll learn better in the same amount of time if you're not hit visually with everything all at once. If intelligently done and not just done for style's sake, good editing keeps your attentional circuits in gear while adding to your comprehension. The best MOOCs showcase the talent of video editors and instructional designers. There will undoubtedly be many other approaches to MOOC making that you find very helpful. Please head on over to the discussion forums and let us know what you think some of these best approaches are. Please tell us some of your favorite MOOCs and why you like them.    There is one important aspect of learning, that we haven't yet touched on. Yet it can be one of the most important aspects of learning of all. That is mentors. Mentors aren't necessarily parent-like figures who spend many hours brainstorming and guiding you to your future. In fact, a mentor can be as simple as someone who says, or does, something that causes you to think and make valuable changes. Or, who gives you insight about your life. You don't even have to meet a mentor in person. It's not that mentors can, or even should, tell you what you should be doing. It's that mentors can help you view the world in a different way, so you can more easily discover and go in the direction you determine is best for you, not to mention that they can have ideas and context that can change your life. Our lives are filled with a wide variety of mentors who help us in many ways large and small. Even rude and mean people can be mentors to us since they can show us what we don't want to be like ourselves. And sometimes their feedback and thoughts although painful can be helpful in the grand scheme of things. Arnim Rodeck, for example, was an electrical engineer who made an enormous career change when he decided to become a creative wood worker, a craft at which he would eventually become world class. Arnim differentiates his mentors into two different types. >> Hi there, there are several type of mentors, the ones who actually pump us up and energize us, or the ones who actually could be much more critical and actually won't tolerate any excuses. They might be much more stern and demanding people but at the end of the day, the insight we gain from them is invaluable. >> Mentors can even be online nowadays. For example, in learning experiences as different as acquiring a new language or training a horse, you may interact with a mentor who lives far away from you. My co-instructor, Terry Sejnowski, also has some thoughts here. >> The brain works best with concrete examples not abstract aspirations. A good place to start reinventing yourself is to ask, who has had the most influence on my life and who has inspired me to start a new life? Influential mentors have motivated me to become who I am today. In high school, I joined the radio club and I learned electronics and Morse code. The radio club had tracked the Sputnik, the first satellite to circle the earth at a time when the US was taken by surprise. I was asked, what is your mission? We all have a mission in life but if you don't ask yourself the question, you may never find the answer. I still ask myself this question because the answer keeps changing. Asking yourself the right question about your life is half the battle, where do I want to be next month or next year? This will shape what skills you'll need and what steps you should take to acquire them. Persistence is a virtue. Don't let setbacks keep you back. Motivation can also come from working closely with someone who shares the same goals. Projects with short-term goals can focus the mind wonderfully. The persistence needed to achieve long term goals can be sustained by collaborations that are more like marriages. These relationships can be the most satisfying, choose them wisely. Mind shifting may mean re-evaluating your relationships, finding new short-term collaborations, and cultivating longer-term ones that take you in new directions. >> A word of advice, it's unwise to approach a person you don't know and ask them to be your mentor. This can put that person in an uncomfortable situation, after all they have no idea what your expectations of a mentor are. And truthfully, they have no idea whether you might be a fit for them. In fact, it's often better to avoid asking someone to be your mentor, even if you consider them to be a mentor to you. If the fit is right, a relationship will develop organically, and in the course of this relationship, you may only get tiny snippets of occasional insight from your mentor. But this can still be very valuable. Because while these snippets may take only a few seconds for the mentor to say, they can nevertheless have a profound influence on you and your career. So don't discount the importance of even the most trivial seeming exchanges with someone you consider a mentor. Finally, if it seems reasonable look for ways to make yourself somehow useful to your mentor. Just as they are for you. Ensuring that the benefits of the relationship go both ways will make it that much stronger. And if you've had a positive mentoring experience, look for ways to pay it forward by mentoring others in ways similar to the mentoring that has helped you.    >> My friend, Jake Taylor is a professional investor who also runs a website called Five Good Questions and online series dedicated to interviewing interesting authors and creating more inspired readers. Back when he was in business school, Jake won a long shot lottery to have lunch with Warren Buffett. Those six hours together with Warren Buffett transformed Jake's life. >> After meeting Mister Buffett, I couldn't stop wondering how one man had accumulated so much knowledge in one lifetime. I started reading everything I could get my hands on about him. And after about a decade now, I think I've finally unlocked what his magic is. The truth is, is that although he and his business partner, Charlie Munger have incredibly high IQs, their real competitive advantage comes from all the books that they read. These guys are nonstop readers. If you want to be the smartest person in the room, it's pretty simple. Just read more than everyone else. Now [COUGH] and you may say, it is difficult to find time to read. But if you can carve out 20 minutes a day, that will lead to 35 books read in 1 year. So imagine yourself a year from now, when you've read 35 book, how much smarter you'll be? Now, think about yourself 3 years out and the 100 books that you'll have read over that time. All of this compounds out into a richer and more successful life with better decision-making all along the way. So if I could say, there was one hack, I would say, it's to read more than everyone else. >> One controlled study of well over 3,000 participants found that book readers have a survival advantage over those who read only newspapers or magazines, or who didn't read much at all. Basically, book readers showed about a 20% reduction in risk of mortality over the 12 years of followup compared to non-book readers. There's something about book reading that is especially healthy. We talked about the importance of metaphor in learning. Here's something to think about if you're trying to be creative, as well as knowledgeable about a field. Let's say that you're trying to understand the best approaches to investing. So you read all the most famous books on investing and many other books on investing, as well. What you don't tend to think about is that everybody else who's interested in investing is doing pretty much the same thing. So, the same input can mean much the same output. Meaning that you won't really have much of an advantage on everyone else. However, if you make a habit of reading not only within your discipline or subject area, but also devoting a little time to reading and learning something completely unrelated, at least it seems that way. You have a much better chance of bringing creative new approaches and ideas to the discipline through the metaphors that will naturally develop in your mind. This could be what else ends up giving you that extra edge. In this MOOC, we've placed a lot of emphasis on online learning, but don't forget the value of reading good books in helping you to keep up with life long learning. Do you have a favorite book or author who's impacted your learning, the quality of your life or your understanding of life and your place in it? Head on over to the discussion forum and let us know what you think, and learn as well from the top insights of professors.  It never occurred to me that I would someday become omniscient, which I have for all practical purposes. Information flows through the Internet at the speed of light. We are living through an explosion of information in its many forms. The economy is going digital, and programming skills are in great demand at many companies. As the world shifts from an industrial economy to an information economy, education and job training will have to adapt. We are witnessing the beginning of a major shift in how we live. The Age of Information will have as profound an impact on society by enhancing our cognitive abilities, as the Industrial Revolution had 250 years ago by enhancing physical power. The timetable for this transformation will be much more rapid than the Industrial Revolution, which took 100 years for the world to adapt to machines. The Information Age will play out over the next few decades. We heard last week that the South Korean Go champion was beaten by AlphaGo, an artificial intelligence program based on deep learning that was bio-inspired. Learning in deep neural network models has become possible because of the million times increase in computer power since the 1980s. Deep learning has made it possible to reach human levels of performance in speech recognition and object recognition in images. As we reverse engineer the brain's learning systems, we are also gaining new insights into human intelligence. Nature evolved learning as a way for a broad range of problems to be solved by experience with the world, and humans learn faster and more deeply than any other species. Google recently released a new version of Google Translate based on deep learning, which was a quantum leap in the quality of translation between natural languages. Literally overnight, language translation went from a fragmented, hit-or-miss jumble of phrases to seamless sentences. Previous methods searched for combinations of words that could be translated together, but deep learning looks for dependencies across whole sentences. When you use an Android cell phone to transcribe speech, you are using deep learning. When speech recognition is combined with language translation, it will become possible to communicate across cultures. Star Trek's universal translator is within our reach. An even larger disruption is beginning to affect service industries and professions, as machine learning matures and is applied to many other problems where big data are available. Medical diagnosis based on the records of millions of patients will become more accurate. A recent study applied deep learning to a medical database of dermatological images for over 2000 different skin diseases. The network was trained to diagnose these diseases. Performance was comparable to that of expert dermatologists. It should now be possible for anyone with a smartphone to take a photo of a suspicious skin lesion and have it diagnosed instantly in the cloud, a process that now requires a visit to a doctor's office, a long wait for the lesion to be screened by an expert, followed by a substantial bill. This will greatly expand the scope and quality of dermatological care. Deep learning is just beginning to affect the legal profession. Much of the routine work in law offices that charge hundreds of dollars an hour will become automated. Complying with the increasing regulatory complexity will also benefit from automated systems. Legal support will be available for the average person who cannot now afford a lawyer. Not only will legal work be cheaper, it will be much faster, a factor that is often more important than the expense. Deep learning will have an even bigger impact on your everyday life. As you interact with the Internet, you are generating data about yourself that is machine-readable. This can be used to create a personal assistant that knows you better than anyone else in the world, and will not forget anything. Your children will have their own personal tutors who'll accompany them throughout their education. The educational opportunities for the children of today's children will be better than the best education available today to wealthy families. As these new technologies mature, the new jobs that will be opening up will require new skills. The steam engine displaced human labor, but created jobs for engineers who could build and service steam engines. As jobs that now require cognitive skills are taken over by automated AI systems, there will be new jobs for those that can create and maintain these systems. These new jobs will require new skills. So, be prepared for a lifetime of learning.What do you do when you just can't figure something out? For zombies, it's pretty simple. They can just keep bashing their brains against the wall. But living brains are a lot more complex. It turns out, though, that if you understand just a little bit of some of the basics about how your brain works, you can learn more easily and be less frustrated. Researchers have found that we have two fundamentally different modes of thinking. Here, I'll call them the Focused and the Diffuse modes. We're familiar with focusing. It's when you concentrate intently on something you're trying to learn or to understand. But we're not so familiar with diffuse thinking. Turns out that this more relaxed thinking style is related to a set of neural resting states. We're going to use an analogy of the game of pinball to help us understand these two thinking modes. Incidentally, both metaphor and analogy are really helpful when you're trying to learn something new. If you remember, a pinball game works by, you pull back on the plunger, release it, and a ball goes boinking out, bouncing around on the rubber bumpers, and that's how you get points. So, here's your brain, with the ears right here, and the eyes looking upwards. And we can lay that pinball machine right down inside it. So, there you go. There's the analogy for the focused mode. The blue bumper bumpers here are placed very close to one another. See this orange pattern here towards the top? It represents a familiar thought pattern. Maybe involving something simple like adding some numbers, or more advanced ideas like literary criticism or calculating electromagnetic flows. You think a thought, boom, it takes off, moves smoothly along. And then, as it's bouncing around on the bumpers, you're able to figure out the problem you're trying to solve, or. The concept you're trying to understand that's related to something you're rather familiar with. So look at how that thought moves smoothly around on the fuzzy underlying orange neural pathway. In some sense it's as if it's traveling along a familiar, nicely paved road. But what if the problem you're working on needs new ideas or approaches? Concepts you haven't thought of before. That's symbolized here by this neural pattern towards the bottom of the pinball machine area. But if you haven't thought that thought before, you don't even know how that pattern feels or where it is. So how are you going to develop that new thought in the first place? Not only do you not know where the pattern is or what the pattern looks like, but see all the rubber bumpers that are blocking your access whatever direction you do decide to move in? To get to this new thought pattern, you need a different way of thinking. And that's represented here, by the diffuse mode. Look at how widely spaced the rubber bumpers are. Thought takes off, look at how it moves widely, bounces around. It could travel a long way before being interrupted by hitting a bumper. In this diffuse mode of thinking, you can look at things broadly from a very different, big-picture perspective. You can make new neural connections traveling along new pathways. You can't focus in as tightly as you often need to, to finalize any kind of problem solving. Or understand the finest aspects of a concept. But you can at least get to the initial place you need to be in to home in on a solution. Now as far as neuroscientists know right now, you're either in the focused mode or the diffuse mode of thinking. It seems you can't be in both thinking modes at the same time. It's kind of like a coin. We can see either one side, or the other side of the coin. But not both sides at the same time. Being in one mode seems to limit your access to the other mode's way of thinking. In our next video we're going to see how some extraordinary people access their diffuse ways of thinking to do great things. Thanks for learning about learning, I'm Barbara Oakley. [BLANK_AUDIO][BLANK_AUDIO] So let's take a look at some famous people from history who used their different thinking modes to help them with their problem solving. If you look at that guy right there, he was Salvador Dali, a very well known Surrealist painter of the 20th century. He was the very definition of a wild and crazy guy. You can see him here with his pet ocelot, Babou. Dal used to have an interesting technique to help him come up with his fantastically creative Surrealist paintings. He'd relax in a chair and let his mind go free, often still vaguely thinking about what he had been previously focusing on. He'd have a key in his hand, dangling it just above the floor. And as he would slip into his dreams, falling asleep, the key would fall from his hand [SOUND] and the clatter would wake him up, just in time so he could gather up those diffuse mode connections and ideas in his mind. And off he'd go back into the focused mode bringing with him the new connections he'd made while in the diffuse mode. Now you might think, well, you know, that's okay for an artist, but what is it have to do with more scientific or mathematical kinds of thinking? Well, if you look down here, this guy was Thomas Edison, one of the most brilliant inventors ever. According to legend, what Edison used to do was he'd sit and relax in his chair, holding ball bearings in his hand. He'd relax away letting his mind run free, although it would often noodle back in a much more relaxed way to what he'd been focusing on previously. When Edison would fall asleep, the ball bearings would drop [NOISE] and clatter to the ground just as with Dal. And it would wake Edison up and off he'd go with his ideas from the diffuse mode, ready to take them into the focused mode and build on them. So the bottom line is, when you're learning something new, especially something that's a little more difficult, your mind needs to be able to go back and forth between the two different learning modes. That's what helps you learn effectively. You might think of it as a bit analogous to building your strength by lifting weights. You would never plan to compete in a weight lifting competition by waiting until the very day before a meet and then spending that entire day working out like a fiend. I mean, it just doesn't happen that way. To gain muscular structure, you need to do a little work every day, gradually allowing your muscles to grow. Similarly, to build neuro-structure, you need to do a little work every day, gradually allowing yourself to grow a neuro-scaffold to hang your thinking on, a little bit every day and that's the trick. In summary then, we learned that analogies provide powerful techniques for learning. We learned about how the brain's two different thinking modes, focused and diffuse, each helps us learn, but in very different ways. And finally, we learn that learning something difficult can take time. Your brain needs to alternate its ways of learning as it grapples with and assimilates the new material. Thanks for learning about learning. I'm Barbara Oakley.Welcome to learning how to learn. My name is Terry Sejnowski. Let me introduce you to your brain. First, some brain surgery. We take off the skull and take out the brain. This brain weighs three pounds, but it consumes ten times more energy by weight than the rest of the body, a very expensive organ. It is the most complex device in the known universe. All of your thoughts, your hopes, your fears are in the neurons in this brain. We prize our abilities to do chess and math, but it takes years of practice to acquire these skills. And digital computers are much better at it than we are. It came as a surprise to discover that what we do so well and take for granted, like seeing, hearing, reaching, running, are all much more complex problems than we thought and way beyond the capability of the world's fastest digital computers. What this illustrates is that we are not consciously aware of how our brains work. Brains evolved to help us navigate complex environments, and most of the heavy lifting is done below our level of consciousness. And we don't need to know how it's done in order to survive. Psychologists who study the unconscious mind have found that influences include thought processes, memory, emotions and motivation. We are only aware of a very small fraction of all of the activity in the brain, so we need to rely on brain imaging techniques to guide us. Here is the activity map of someone's brain who was asked to lie still, at rest, in a brain imaging scanner. On the left is the side view of the brain and on the right is the view from the midline. The colors indicate brain areas whose activities were highly correlated, as shown by the time courses below, color-coded to the brain areas. The blue areas are highly active when the subject interacts with the world, but turn off in a resting state. The red-orange areas are most active in the resting state and are called the default mode network. Other brain areas are also more active when you are resting, and these areas can be further divided into groups of areas that have common patterns of activity. This is a new and intense area of research, and it will take time to sort out all the resting states and their functions. There are a million billion synapses in your brain where memories are stored. The old view of the brain is that once it matures, the strengths of synapses can be adjusted by learning, but the pattern of connectivity does not change much unless there is brain damage. But now we know that brain connectivity is dynamic and remains so even after it matures. With new optical techniques for imaging single connections between neurons called synapses, we can see constant turnover, with new synapses being formed and others disappearing. This raises a puzzle. In the face of so much turnover, how do memories stay stable over so many years? This is a picture of one dendritic branch on a neuron which receives inputs from other neurons. The synapses are on the spiny knobs coming off the dendrite. On the top, the dendrite was imaged before learning. The same dendrite is shown below after learning and after sleep. Multiple synapses that are newly formed together on the same branch are indicated by the white arrowheads. You are looking down into the brain of a live animal. This is really a fantastic new technique. Synapses are less than a micron in diameter. In comparison, a human hair is around 20 microns in diameter. This new technique allows us to see how learning changes the structure of the brain with a resolution that is near the limit of light microscopy. This illustrates that, intriguingly, that you are not the same person you were after a night's sleep or even a nap. It is if you went to bed with one brain and woke up with an upgrade. This is a better deal than you can get from Microsoft. Shakespeare, the great English poet, already knew this. Here is Macbeth lamenting his insomnia. Sleep that knits up the raveled sleeve of care, the death of each day's life, sore labor's bath, balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course, chief nourisher in life's feast. Here Shakespeare is making an analogy between knitted clothes and sleep that knits up the loose threads of experience and concerns during the day and weaves them into the tapestry of your life story. You will learn in this first week how to take advantage of your unconscious mind, and also sleep, to make it easier to learn new things and solve problems. During the lectures you may ask yourself, how does the brain do this? A good place to find out more about your brain is the website brainfacts.org, brainfacts, one word, .org. You will find a wealth of interesting things about brains and behavior, and in particular about learning and memory. I am Terry Sejnowski. Happy learning until we meet again.[SOUND]. This week, we're going to be talking about chunks, compact packages of information that your mind can easily access. We'll talk about how you can form chunks, how you can use them to improve your understanding of, and creativity with the material, and how chunks can help you do better on tests. We'll also talk about illusions of competence in learning. This was when you're using ineffective study methods that fool your mind into thinking you're learning something when you're mostly just wasting your time. We'll cover what those less effective study methods are and tell you what methods research has shown will work better to help you in your studies. Finally we'll talk about something called overlearning, which can solidly ingrain information in your mind, but also can be a little like digging deeper ruts as you might spin your wheels ineffectively in learning. You can make your study time more valuable by interleaving, providing intelligent variety in your studies. I'm Barbara Oakley. Thanks for learning how to learn.  A common challenge to making a mindshift is something so simple we almost forget to think about it, procrastination. Of course, in our previous MOOC, Learning How to Learn, we already learned about how procrastination can arise. When you even think about something that you don't really want to do, it activates the brain's pain centers. The brain, naturally enough, tries to stop that negative stimulation, so it turns its attention to something else, anything else. The result? You feel better almost instantly. But you've also just procrastinated. We learned, as well, about, the Pomodoro Technique to help you tackle procrastination. Italian Francesco Cirillo devised this fiendishly clever method in the 1980s, and it's spread around the world since then. To do a pomodoro, just turn off all distractions, no little ringy dingies from our cell phones or computers and then set a timer for 25 minutes. Then you hold your focus on your work as intently as you humanly can for those 25 minutes. We're all human, and distracting thoughts will inevitably arise when we're doing a pomodoro. For example, sometimes I'll set the pomodoro timer for 25 minutes. Great, I'm all happy. And then 5 minutes into the pomodoro, I'll look up and suddenly realize that I've got 20 whole minutes left to do. My mind goes, I just can't do 20 more minutes! But what I do is I let that thought go right on by and then I return my focus to my learning or my work. If I catch myself absently checking my email, I gently stop as soon as I've realized what I'm doing. In fact, I'll often close my email program, and other programs, just to make it a little harder to check them. None of us has perfectly obedient minds, thank goodness, which means it's inevitable that distracting thoughts are going to arise. The thing is when you're doing a pomodoro, you don't want to try to push those thoughts away or tell yourself not to think those thoughts. Instead, you just want to acknowledge the distracting thought and let it go by as you return your attention to whatever you were focusing on. We've mentioned the first three components of the Pomodoro Technique, but there's actually a fourth. Once you're done with the pomodoro it's reward time. [SOUND] You get to switch your attention for a while to whatever you want. You might listen to a favorite song, go to your favorite social media, watch a funny dance video, do a funny dance yourself, chat online with a friend. Or do something where you move around a little bit, straighten part of your room, walk to the kitchen to get some coffee or tea. The whole idea is to get your attention off whatever you've just been focusing on. In fact, you want to give the part of the brain you've just been using a bit of a break. This means the reward shouldn't involve similar types of tasks. For instance, if you've been writing a report then you don't want to go to Twitter or Facebook and continue writing, even if it's about a different subject. That would be kind of like taking a break from lifting heavy barbells instead by lifting boxes of books. You're still doing heavy lifting either way, which means you're not getting much of a break. And at the end of the day you'll find yourself getting much more tired. A great approach is, if you're doing mental work, try to instead do some kind of movement during your breaks, something where your brain can relax and your mind can do some wandering. All of this is very important because in the past we've always thought that learning only took place when we were focusing our attention on something. But we now understand that an important part of learning takes place when we're not focusing on something. In fact, to truly understand something we often need periods where we've switched our attention off the material we're trying to understand, because that's the time when we consolidate and make sense of the material. We're not consciously aware of this process, which is why we often don't realize how important this consolidation process is for learning, memory, and long-term creativity. We've heard from tens of thousands of learners in Learning How to Learn about how much they loved the Pomodoro Technique. People often ask, well, why 25 minutes? Remember that pain in the brain that pops up when we think about something we really didn't want to do? It seems that when we decide to go ahead and work on that task despite the pain, that pain often lasts about 20 minutes. In other words, doing a pomodoro helps you just get past the pain and into the flow of the work. I do have to admit, if I really get going and into the flow, I don't necessarily make myself stop at the end of a pomodoro session. I just keep going as long as it feels good, which, of course, is fine too. People often also wonder about how long the break should be between pomodoros. Well, this depends on you, and what you've got going on. Maybe it's final examination time, or you've got a massively important presentation to prepare for. In this case, you may only want to have maybe 3 to 5 minutes between pomodoros. But if you're not in such a crunch time, perhaps you can take 10 or 20 minutes. Some people set a pomodoro timer as a sort of, worst case I only have to do 25 minutes, sort of motivator. The pomodoro helps them to get started, but if they get into the flow, and are liking what they're doing, they won't necessarily quit at the end of the 25 minutes. You might also ask, how do I get myself restarted doing a pomodoro once I've taken a break? This also depends a lot on you. Everyone's motivated differently. One motivator is to download an app onto your phone that gives you badges for each pomodoro you finish. People often enjoy collecting these badges each day, and you can set a goal for yourself, perhaps two pomodoros for work related to one topic, maybe three related to another, and so forth. There are also other motivators you can use. We'll talk about them in the next video. And you'll be learning a lot more about all of this in our Productivity MOOC. The Pomodoro Technique is, in reality, a powerful and actually enjoyable type of meditation through work. Smart learners make great use of this.  [SOUND] In this video, we're going to answer the question. What is a chunk? When you first look at a brand new concept it sometimes doesn't make much sense, as shown by the jumbled puzzle pieces here. Chunking is the mental leap that helps you unite bits of information together through meaning. The new logical whole makes the chunk easier to remember, and also makes it easier to fit the chunk into the larger picture of what you're learning. Just memorizing a fact without understanding or context doesn't help you understand what's really going on or how the concept fits together with other concepts you're learning. Notice there are no interlocking puzzle edges on the puzzle piece to help you fit it to other pieces. We talked earlier about working memory and how those four slots of working memory appear to hang out in the part of your brain right behind your forehead known as the prefrontal cortex. When you're focusing your attention on something it's almost as if you have an octopus. The octopus of attention that slips it's tentacles through those four slots of working memory when necessary to help you make connections to information that you might have in various parts of your brain. Remember, this is different from the random connections of the diffuse mode. Focusing your attention to connect parts of the brain to tie together ideas is an important part of the focused mode of learning. It is also often what helps get you started in creating a chunk. Interestingly when you're stressed your attentional octopus begins to lose the ability to make some of those connections. This is why your brain doesn't seem to work right when you're angry, stressed, or afraid. Chunks are pieces of information, neuroscientifically speaking, through bound together through meaning or use. You can take the letters P-O and P and bind them together into one conceptual easy to remember chunk, the word pop. [SOUND] It's like converting a, a cumbersome computer file into a ZIP file. Underneath that single pop chunk is a symphony of neurons that have learned to sing in tune with one another. The complex neural activity that ties together our simplifying abstract chunks of thought. Whether those thoughts pertain to acronyms, ideas, or concepts are the basis of much of the science, literature, and art. Let's say you want to learn how to speak Spanish. If you're a child hanging around a Spanish speaking household, learning Spanish is as natural as breathing. Your mother says, mama. And you say, mama, right back to her. Your neurons fire and wire together in a shimmering mental loop cementing the relationship in your mind between the sound mama and your mother's smiling face. That scintillating neural loop is one memory trace, which is connected of course to many other related memory traces. The best programs for learning language, such as those of the Defense Language Institute where I learned Russian, incorporate structured practice that includes repetition and rote focus mode learning of the language along with more diffuse-like free speech with native speakers. The goal is to embed the basic words and patterns so you can speak as freely and creatively in your new language as you do in your native language. As it turns out one of the first steps towards gaining expertise in academic topics is to create conceptual chunks, mental leaps that unite scattered bits of information through meaning. The concept of neural chunks also applies to sports, music, dance, really just about anything that humans can get good at. Basically, a chunk means a network of neurons that are used to firing together so you can think a thought or perform an action smoothly and effectively. Focused practice and repetition, the creation of strong memory traces, helps you to create chunks. The path to expertise is built little by little, small chunks can become larger, and all of the expertise serves to underpin more creative interpretations as you gradually become a master of the material. In other words, as you'll see later, practice and repetition in building chunks aren't all you need to become a truly creative master of the material you're learning. Chunking helps your brain run more efficiently. Once you chunk an idea, a concept, or an action, you don't know need to remember all the little underlying details. You've got the main idea, the chunk, and that's enough. It's like getting dressed in the morning. You just think one simple thought like, I'll get dressed, but it's amazing when you realize the complex swirl of underlying activities that take place with that one, simple chunk of thought. Next, we'll talk about how you can form a chunk. I'm Barbara Oakley. Thanks for learning how to learn. [BLANK_AUDIO]Welcome back to Learning How to Learn. Today we're going to talk about how to become a better learner. As we learn more about the brain we can become better learners, and here are two tips for how to learn better. Tip number one, the best gift that you can give your brain is Physical Exercise. We once thought that all of the neurons in your brain were already present at birth, but we now know that in a few places, new neurons are born every day. One of these places is in your Hippocampus, a brain area that is very important for learning new things that we already discussed earlier in the course. In this experiment, a rat is shown, learning how to distinguish a picture of a flower from a picture of an airplane. In the background is a photo of neurons in the hippocampus, with the old neurons shown in blue and newly generated neurons in red. As the rat learns the task, these new neurons are recruited to help perform better pattern separation between the two pictures. These new neurons help you learn new things but they will die if you don't use them. New experiences will rescue them. Exercise, interestingly, also helps new neurons survive. Exercise is by far, more effective than any drug on the market today to help you learn better. It benefits all of your vital organisms, not just your brain. It is unfortunate that schools are dropping gym and recess to make room for more instruction. Gym and recess are by far the most important parts of the curriculum. Here's another tip and this has to do with practice making perfect, but only when your brain is prepared. There are certain critical periods in the development of your brain. When sudden improvements occur in specific abilities, expect them to happen and prepare your brain for them. The critical period for first language acquisition extends up to puberty. One of the best studied critical periods in the brain is when binocular depth perception or stereopsis matures during the first two years of life. Stereopsis is the magic behind Magic Eye pictures like the one shown here. If you stare at this image and slightly cross your eyes, you will see staircases pop out of the page. There is a slight shift between the images in the two eyes and your brain interprets this slight shift as difference in depth. Not everyone, however, can see this. Over 5% of the population is stereo blind. If the two eyes are not properly aligned during the first two years of development, the neurons in your visual cortex will fail to properly strengthen the inputs from the two eyes and depth perception is permanently impaired. Well, that's the dogma. But Sue Barry, a friend of mine from graduate school at Princeton, was able to recover stereo vision through eye exercises. And wrote a book about it, entitled Fixing My Gaze, a scientist's journey into seeing in three dimensions. Practice can repair, as well as train the brain. But this takes much longer, past the critical period. This brings us to zombies. Zombies can't learn. It is also clear from their behavior that they have brain damage. Especially in the front of their cortex, which is the part that makes plans, as well as in their language areas. Learning, Planning, Language, these are the skills that make us human. The prefrontal cortex is also involved in complex analysis in social behaviors, as well as decision making and planning. It is the last part of the cortex to mature, so until this happens, there may be a little bit of zombie in you. Another patient, EVR, suffered a stroke in the social parts of his prefrontal cortex. EVR had a high IQ and seemed normal, but he was ruined by making bad financial decisions and bad social interactions. He lost both his home and his family. Good judgement takes a long time, and a lot of experience to acquire. Learning, is too important to be left behind in the classroom. Learning to learn is a skill you can master. And you can use it to improve every part of your life. You'll be learning even more learning tips this week, and can follow up on them at brainfacts.org. I'm Terry Sejnowski, happy learning to you until we meet again.[BLANK_AUDIO] This week we are going to wrap up a slew of important ideas, and techniques that will help round out and enhance your ability to learn well, using metaphors and analogies, to work profitable with teammates, and not undercut your own strengths. And finally to perform well on tests. One important thought though, before we launch into this week's videos. Learning doesn't progress logically, so that each day just adds an additional neat package to your knowledge shelf. Sometimes you hit a wall in constructing your understanding. Things that made sense before can suddenly seem confusing. This type of knowledge collapse seems to occur when your mind is restructuring its understanding, building a more solid foundation. In the case of language learners, they experience occasional periods when the foreign language suddenly seems completely incomprehensible. Remember it takes time to assimilate new knowledge. You'll inevitably go through some periods when you seem to take and exasperating step backwards, in your understanding. This is a natural phenomenon, that means that your mind is wrestling deeply with the material. You'll find that when you emerge from these periods of temporary frustration, your knowledge base will take a surprising leap forward. I'm Barbara Oakley, thanks for learning how to learn.[BLANK_AUDIO] One of the best things you can do to not only remember, but understand concepts, is to create a metaphor or analogy for them. Often the more visual the better. A metaphor is just a way of realizing that one thing is somehow similar to another. Simple ideas like one geography teacher's description of Syria is shaped like a bowl of cereal, and Jordan as a Nike Air Jordan sneaker, can stick with a student for decades. If you're trying to understand electrical current, it can help to visualize it as water. Similarly, electrical voltage can feel like pressure. A push. As you climb to a more sophisticated understanding of whatever topic you're concentrating on, you can revise your metaphors or toss them away and create more meaningful ones. Metaphors and visualization, being able to see something in your mind's eye, have been especially helpful not only in art and literature, but also in allowing the scientific and engineering world to make progress. In the 1800s for example, when chemists began to imagine and visualize the miniature world of molecules, dramatic progress began to be made. Here's a fun illustration of monkeys in a benzene ring from an insider spoof of German Academic Chemical Life printed in 1886. Note the single bonds, or the monkeys' hands, and the double bonds with their tiny little tails. It's often helpful to pretend that you are the concept you're trying to understand. Put yourself in an electron's warm and fuzzy slippers as it burrows through a slab of copper. Or sneak inside the X of an algebraic equation and feel what it's like to poke your head out of the rabbit hole. But just don't let it get exploded by an inadvertent divide by zero. In chemistry, compare a cation with a cat that has paws and is therefore pawsitive. And an anion with an onion that's negative, because it makes you cry. Metaphors are never perfect, but then in science, all models are just metaphors which means they break down at some point. But nevermind that. Metaphors and models are often vitally important in giving a physical understanding of the central idea behind the process or concept you are trying to understand. Interestingly, metaphors and analogies are useful for getting people out of Einstellung that is, being blocked by thinking about a problem in the wrong way. For example, telling a simple story of soldiers attacking a fortress from many different directions at once can open creative paths for students to see how many low-intensity rays can be effectively used to destroy a cancerous tumor. Stories, even if they're just used as silly memory tricks, can also allow you to more easily retain what you're trying to learn. Metaphors also help glue an idea into your mind. Because they make a connection to neural structures that are already there. It's like being able to trace a pattern with tracing paper. Metaphors at least help you get a sense of what's going on. I'm Barbara Oakley. Thanks for learning how to learn. [BLANK_AUDIO][BLANK_AUDIO] This is a good place for us to step back and look again at chunking from another perspective. Notice what we're doing here. We're interleaving our learning by jumping back to revisit and deepen our understanding of a topic we've already covered. There's an interesting connection between learning math and science and learning a sport. In baseball, for example, you don't learn how to hit in one day. Instead, your body perfects your swing from lots and lots of repetition over a period of years. Smooth repetition creates muscle memory, so your body knows what to do from a single thought. One chunk instead of having to recall all the complex steps involved in hitting a ball. In the same way, once you understand why you do something in math and science. You don't have to keep re-explaining the how to yourself every time you do it. it's not necessary to go around with a hundred beans in your pocket and to lay out ten rows of ten beans again and again so you get that ten times ten is equal to 100. At some point you just know it from memory. For example you memorize the idea that you simply add exponents, those little superscript numbers, when you are multiplying numbers that have the same base. Ten to the fourth times ten to the fifth is equal to ten to the ninth. If you use the procedure a lot, by doing many different types of problems you'll find that you understand both the why and the how behind the procedure far better then you do after getting a conventional explanation from a teacher or a book. The greater understanding results from the fact that your mind constructed the patterns of meaning, rather than simply accepting what someone else has told you. Remember, people learn by trying to make sense out of the information they perceive. They rarely learn anything complex simply by having someone else tell it to them. Chess masters, emergency room physicians, fighter pilots, and many other experts often have to make complex decisions rapidly. They shut down their conscious system and instead rely on their well trained intuition, drawing on their deeply ingrained repertoire of chunks. At some point self-consciously understanding why you do what you do, just slows you down and interrupts the flow resulting in worse decisions. But wait, are chess masters and people who can multiply six digit numbers in their heads exceptionally gifted? Not necessarily, I'm going to tell it to you straight. Sure. Intelligence matters. Being smarter often equates to having a larger working memory. Your hot rod of a memory may be able to hold nine things in mind instead of four and you can latch on to those things like a bulldog, which makes it easier to learn. But guess what, it also makes it more difficult for you to be creative. How's that? It's our old friend and enemy Einstellung. The idea you are already holding in mind can block you from fresh thoughts. A superb working memory can hold its thoughts so tightly that new thoughts can't easily peek through. Such tightly controlled attention could use an occasional whiff of ADHD-like fresh air, the ability, in other words, to have your attention shift even if you don't want it to shift. If you're one of those people who can't hold a lot in mind at once, you lose focus and start daydreaming in lectures and have to get to some place quiet to focus so you can use your working memory to its maximum, well welcome to the clan of the creative. Having a somewhat smaller working memory means you can more easily generalize your learning into new, more creative combinations. Because your working memory, which grows from the focusing abilities of the prefrontal cortex doesn't lock everything up so tightly. You can more easily get input from other parts of your brain. These other areas, which include the sensory cortex, not only are more in tune with what's going on around you in the environment, but are also the source of dreams, not to mention creative ideas. You may have to work harder sometimes or even much of the time to understand what's going on. But once you get something chunked you can take that chunk and turn it outside in and inside round, putting it through creative paces even you didn't think you were capable of. Here's another point to put into your mental chunker. It is practice, particularly deliberate practice on the toughest aspects of the material that can help lift average brains into the realm of those with more natural gifts. Just as you can practice lifting weights and get bigger muscles over time, you can also practice certain mental patterns that deepen and enlarge in your mind. Whether your naturally gifted or you have to struggle to get a solid grasp of the fundamentals, you should realize that you're not alone if you think you're an imposter. That it's a fluke when you happen to do well on a test, and then on the next test, for sure they, and your family and friends, are finally going to figure out how incompetent you really are. This feeling is so extraordinarily common that it even has a name. The Imposter Syndrome. If you suffer from these kinds of feelings of inadequacy just be aware that many others secretly share them. Everyone has different gifts, as the old saying goes, when one door closes, another opens. Keep your chin up and your eye on the open door. I'm Barbara Oakley. Thanks for learning how to learn.I love reading history and being inspired by the biographies of extraordinary people. One of the most unusual people I've ever read about, is inspiring not only because he was so extraordinary. But also, because he was so ordinary. Santiago Ramn y Cajal was a born troublemaker. In rural Spain of the 1860s, there weren't many options for oddball juvenile delinquents. So that's how at 11 years old, Cajal found himself in jail. Cajal was stubborn and rebellious. Who knew that Santiago Ramn y Cajal would one day not only earn the Nobel Prize, but eventually become known as the Father of Modern Neuroscience? Cajal was already in his early 20s when he began climbing from bad boy delinquency into the traditional study of medicine. There's evidence that myelin sheaths. The fatty insulation that helps signals move more quickly along a neuron, don't finish developing in some people until they're in their twenties. This may explain why teenagers often have trouble controlling their impulsive behavior. The wiring between the intention and the control areas of the brain isn't completely formed. When you use neural circuits however, it seems you help build the myelin sheath over them. Not to mention making many other microscopic changes. Practice appears to strengthen and reinforce connections between different brain regions, creating highways between the brain's control centers and the centers that store knowledge. In Cajal's case, it seems his natural maturation processes coupled with his own efforts to develop his thinking, helped him to take control of his overall behavior. It seems people can enhance the development of their neuronal circuits by practicing thoughts that use those neurons. We're still in the infancy of understanding neural development. One thing is becoming clear, we can make significant changes in our brain by changing how we think. Cajal met and worked with many brilliant scientists through his lifetime. People who were often far smarter than he. In Cajal's autobiography however, he pointed out that although brilliant people can do exceptional work, just like anyone else they can also be careless and biased. Cajal felt the key to his own success was his perseverance. What he called the virtue of the less brilliant, coupled with his flexible ability to change his mind and admit errors. Anyone, Cajal noted, even people with average intelligence, can change their own brains so that even the least gifted can produce an abundant harvest. People like Charles Darwin, whose theory of evolution has made him one of the most influential figures in human history, are often thought of as these, sort of, natural geniuses. You may be surprised to learn that much like Cajal, Darwin was a poor student in school. He washed out of medical school and ended up, to his father's horror, heading out on a round the world voyage as the ship's naturalist. Out on his own, Darwin was able to look with fresh eyes at the data he was collecting. Approaching material with a goal of learning it on your own, can give you a unique path to mastery. Often no matter how good your teacher and textbook are, it's only when you sneak off and look at other books or videos that you begin to see what you learn through a single teacher, or book, is a partial version of the full three dimensional reality of the subject, which has links to still other fascinating topics that are of your choosing. Taking responsibility for your own learning is one of the most important things you can do. Santiago Ramn y Cajal had a deep understanding, not only of how to conduct science but also of how people just interact with one another. He warned fellow learners that there will always be those who criticize or attempt to undermine any effort or achievement you make. This happens to everybody. Not just Nobel Prize winners. If you do well in your studies, the people around you can feel threatened. The greater your achievement, the more other people will sometimes attack and demean your efforts. On the other hand, if you flunk a test, you also may encounter critics who throw more barbs, saying you don't have what it takes. We're often told that empathy is universally beneficial. But it's not. It's important to learn to switch on an occasional cool dispassion that helps you to not only focus on what you're trying to learn, but also to tune people out if you discover that their interests lie in undercutting you such undercutting is all too common, as people are often just as competitive as they are cooperative. When you're a young person, mastering such dispassion can be difficult. We're naturally excited about what we're working on, and we like to believe that everyone can be reasoned with and then, almost everyone is naturally good hearted towards us. Like Santiago Ramn y Cajal, you can take pride in aiming for success. Because of the very things that make other people say you can't do it. Take pride in who you are. Especially, in the qualities that make you different. And use them as a secret talisman for success. Use your natural contrariness to defy the always present prejudices from others about what you can accomplish. I'm Barbara Oakley. Thanks for learning about learning  The Pomodoro Technique is a powerful tool to help guard against procrastination. But it can also help to take a bit of a step back when you catch yourself procrastinating to look at the bigger picture. Researcher Piers Steel has analyzed many of the different motivators and demotivators of procrastination, which he's written about in his book, The Procrastination Equation. Basically, Steel has found that you get yourself motivated to perform a task. Say to, write a report for work or to prepare for an examination at the university when you expect a reward or success. So you want to do what you can to increase the expectancy of success and the certainty of being rewarded. You also get motivated when you value the task and the task is pleasant. So you want to do what you can to increase the value and the pleasantness of the task. But on the other hand, you get unmotivated to perform a task when you get distracted or lose focus when you're affected by impulsiveness. So you want to do what you can to remove distractions and maintain your focus. Steel's ideas were combined into a very helpful flow chart by program management analyst Alex Vermeer. Basically, to get a handle on procrastination, you want to notice when your procrastination. Be specific about what you're avoiding. And to get motivated you'll want to focus on one of the three areas we just mentioned to increase expectancy, to increase value, or to decrease impulsiveness. So, how would you, for example, increase value? Well, one way is to find a greater meaning in what you're working on. And you do that, for example, by setting and reviewing your major life's goals. And asking yourself how they connect with what you're doing. You might also find a way to get into the flow with the material. Make sure that what you're doing is not to tough, or too easy. And sometimes it helps to create a sense of competition. You can compete against yourself, against your colleagues or you can just turn what you're doing into a game in whatever way you'd like. There's a lot more to Vermeer's chart of course. It's important to keep energized, maybe by moving around a little, splashing some cold water in your face, putting on a little low-key music. And again, it's also useful to create a reward for yourself. More generally, do what you can to keep your brain healthy. Add accountability, and find passion in what you're working on. Now, to increase your sense of expectancy. Remember that if you don't do anything, it guarantees failure. But this means you should pat yourself on the back when you succeed. It's also important to be inspired and to be sure to plan ahead as much as possible. Another helpful strategy is to log your procrastination habits, and check your mindset. Have you inadvertently told yourself you just don't have the talent instead of telling yourself you can develop the talent? You can also work to reduce your impulsivity. The key here is to set a realistic goal and break it down into tiny little doable pieces. When you're working on one of those pieces, set a timer. If you can't do a 25 minute Pomodoro, just start with 5 minutes. Eliminate temptations and distractions like your phone or social media. Set up helpful routines and habits. Use goal reminders and make your goals visible, perhaps by putting them on your mirror so you can see them every morning. Stop trying to suppress distracting thoughts that pop up, instead acknowledge them and let them go right on by. And of course, keep track of your progress so you can feel good about your accomplishments. There's one more thing with relation to procrastination. When you're learning something, especially if it's new and difficult, it's not a good idea to procrastinate. Although you can sometimes really focus under the stress of impending deadline. That stress can also be uncomfortable and counterproductive, making it harder to learn something difficult. More than that, it takes time to grow the new neural synapses that form the foundation of any learning. This is why, as we've noted before, it's important to space out your learning, doing a little every day, rather than trying to cram it all in on one short deadline. Your brain can only grow so many new synaptic connections in a day. And you also need many days of learning, and accompanying nights of good sleep, in order to effectively consolidate the material you've been learning. If you try to cram your learning, you're laying a poor foundation. When the learning's easy, like at the beginning of a course you're taking, it can seem okay to procrastinate and cram. But gradually, as the course goes on, your weak foundation will start showing itself. You'll start to think you just don't have a knack for understanding the material when it isn't that at all. You actually just haven't put the time in to properly understanding and learning it. Sometimes, however, procrastination can be productive. This often relates to tasks where you're synthesizing information. For example, when I was writing the book, Mindshift in preparation for doing this MOOC, I was doing a lot of travel around the world, meeting learners and talking with researchers. If I'd started writing too early, I wouldn't have given myself the time I needed to properly gather enough information. I had to give myself time to make sure I collected enough of the right data before I started drawing conclusions. Believe it or not, some learner's biggest challenge is that they want to dive right into writing a report or solving a problem without doing proper preparation. So this kind of, productive procrastination, where you're gathering your knowledge base, is very important. In the end, if you feel overwhelmed by everything you've got to do, just focus on one thing, and keep track of what works best. Finally, remember to use the information in Alex's full flow chart and Piers Steel useful book. Happy Mindshift.    So I have to tell you about a former student of mine. He came up, stuck out a red marked quiz that he just flunked and he said, I just don't see how I could have done so poorly. I understood it when you taught it in class. Here's the problem. In Western education, at least, we've gotten so wedded to the idea that conceptual understanding is the golden key to learning, that we've ignored the fact that practice and repetition is an equally vital aspect of learning. It's that repeated banging away at it that ultimately can structure knowledge. Students themselves, including my former student, are fooled about how to learn effectively. In the past, for thousands of years the only way people thought learning happened was through memorization. People showed their learning mostly by just regurgitating what they'd memorized. Now, it's not like this didn't work at all. Otherwise, we'd never have the wonderful advances in the arts and sciences that we've seen in the last millennia. But of course, memorization isn't everything in learning. As a reaction to that extreme sort of learning equals memorization idea, in the last 100 years or so, a new approach has gradually arisen in Western ways of teaching. This approach says that conceptual understanding, not rote learning or memorization, is the key to learning. But in the West, at least, we've now gone off on to the other end of the extreme. We've gone so far overboard in emphasizing the unique importance of conceptual understanding that we've lost sight of the fact that some memorization in practice, especially deliberate practice that focuses on the hardest parts of the material, is also important in any kind of learning. In fact, practice and repetition, not to mention memorization, don't just reinforce your understanding, they can actually lead to a deeper and richer understanding, as this paper shows. Poets often say, memorize the poem and you will understand it more deeply. But why should we in other disciplines let only the poets have all the fun? Memorizing an equation, for example, can help you understand that equation more deeply, especially if you're trying to understand what's going on with that equation as you're memorizing it. Unfortunately, you'll sometimes hear even advanced educators and educational psychologists in the West saying, it doesn't matter, you can always look it up, in regards many forms of learning, especially in math and science. But that's really not true. Would you know the French language, for example, if you had to go look words up every time you needed them? Would you know how to properly design an engine if you hadn't spent time memorizing some of the equations, or at least working enough with them such that they flowed fluently in your mind? Would you really want your doctor to breeze through medical school without memorizing any of the hundreds of thousands of facts doctors are typically asked to memorize during their preparatory studies? Psychologist Anders Ericsson's work has shown that all expertise develops through building strong, well practiced mental representations. That is, large libraries of solidly built neural chunks that can be easily drawn into working memory. The main point of this video is that practice, including some memorization, can help you to chunk key ideas and procedures, a vitally important part of learning. Remember how when you're first trying to figure something out, the working memory of your prefrontal cortex is going a little crazy? Of course, once you've got that concept chunked, that is, understood and practiced, you basically have the equivalent of a nice, smooth ribbon that you can easily bring into working memory whenever you need to, leaving the other slots of working memory free to process other related chunks to hook them together to form more advanced thoughts. This is a key idea. If you want to see true procedural fluency, that is brilliantly chunked expertise in action, take a look at Mr. Kazuyuki Takayanagi, the president of Soroban Kyoshitsu USA, which is actually located in Japan, as he works with two young children who are learning to add numbers incredibly quickly in their heads using a technique called Flash Anzan It's almost impossible to believe that anyone could add that fast, much less young children, but add they can. What this means is that the rhythms of quickly practicing addition have formed fundamental neural structures that these children can access rapidly, easily, and largely subconsciously, which means that their conscious working memory can be working on more advanced ideas that build on the simpler ideas of addition. Some children can actually play verbal games while they're doing Flash Anzan because the verbal processing uses a different part of the brain. I sometimes have students come to me saying they suffer from test anxiety. Test anxiety does exist. I suffer from it myself. But after decades of teaching, I've come to realize that those who claim test anxiety often simply haven't studied well. Of course they feel anxious when they sit down to do a test. It's just that they haven't studied the material. Only when the test is put in front of them do they look deeply enough to realize that they didn't understand it, it's too late, and they panic. So remember, conceptual understanding is important, but equally important is practice and repetition enhanced by a healthy dose of memorization. I'm Barbara Oakley, happy Mindshift.    So it was at age 26 when I started to try and retrain my brain from being a linguist to becoming more technical. I worked very hard at this, but I couldn't resist the opportunity to keep having adventures. A couple years into my brain retraining exercise, I had the opportunity to go to the Bering Sea and work as a Russian translator on Soviet trawlers. And then the unexpected opportunity arose for me to work as a radio operator at the South Pole Station in Antarctica. Exciting times, except for one thing. All this meant that I took about a year off from the electrical engineering program I just worked so hard to be accepted into. The semester I finally returned to the university after my adventures, it might be no surprise to learn that I struggled. I'd lost some of my newly acquired fluency with math and equations. After all, I'd been away for a year. When I got to my end of semester grades, I was distraught. In fact, I was so disappointed in myself, that I kept feeling upset and stressed for weeks. Have you ever noticed my hands? They've got, let's say, a kind of interesting twist to them. This is because when I let stressful emotions take over my life, I open myself up to disease. I was only 29 years old at the time, but right in the middle of my stressful reaction to bad grades, I acquired rheumatoid arthritis. Allowing yourself to react inappropriately to stressful events can open the door to serious disease, including not only rheumatoid arthritis, but even cancer. It's not like it's just a temporary thing. Obviously these kinds of diseases can affect you for the rest of your life or even shorten your life. Nobel Prize winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman makes a vital point when he observes nothing in life is as important as you think it is, while you're thinking about it. This is a very useful thought to keep in mind to help put your life into perspective. Unfortunate things happen to everyone. But if you react badly, you can end up making those things even worse. At that time, I just didn't have the cognitive tools I needed to be able to handle stress better. I didn't realize that simple mental tricks can be invaluable not only in reducing stress but also overall in helping me to be more effective, productive, and happy in my life and my learning. So what kinds of mental tricks am I talking about? First, let me give you a little background. Let's say you're visiting a zoo and you see a snake in a cage. No big deal right. But now let's imagine that you see that snake outside the cage slithering towards you, very different. You see, the context with which you view something makes an enormous difference. If you learn to put a mental cage, a better frame, around your stressful thoughts it can help you move forward in a positive way. Anyone can learn and develop mental tricks to help them reframe negative thoughts in a more positive way. In the next video, we'll learn some of the most powerful of these tricks.  So what could I have done in reaction to my personal setback with my grades, or with any kind of setback that could have made for a healthier outlook? Putting a label on your feelings, in other words, putting your feelings into a few brief words is one of the most helpful mental tricks you can use when you find yourself being emotionally upset. Applying a label forces you to put your emotional feelings into words. And moving feelings into words helps you shift your thinking from the emotional centers of your brain to the more rational parts of your brain, which automatically begins to tone down your emotions. Fortunately, a field called cognitive therapy has developed a checklist of common emotionally-based distortions of thinking. This checklist provides an automatic set of labels. You can look at these brief descriptive words that I'm going to give you and see which ones fit the emotions you might be feeling when you're upset. Once you've found the words for your feelings, voil, you're already beginning to move your thoughts from emotions to more rational cognitions. Not only does this labeling start helping to calm you down, it also helps you to more easily see the distortions In your thinking. Here I'm going to give you some common cognitive distortions based on the list developed by Dr. David Burns and his great book, The New Mood Therapy. It's worth copying down these distortions and using them as labels to reflect on when something upsets you. Basically, when I felt badly about my grades, I was using every common cognitive distortion in the book. Let's review them one at a time. First, I was using all or nothing thinking. I felt if I didn't get good grades, I was a total failure. I mean, really. The reality was that I wasn't a total failure by any stretch of the imagination. Even if I'd flunked out of the university, I wouldn't have been a total failure. I was exploding the significance of that semester of poor grades. The reality was that even if I'd flunked out of school, and hadn't been successful at changing my brain to be able to effectively study math, I likely would've found a way to go on and have a successful and happy life. And then there's overgeneralization. I saw one semester's failure as part of a series of failures in my life. Sure, I'd done badly that semester, but I've done badly before. As when I'd been a failure as a signal officer in the military. But previously, I'd also done well at some things, like studying Russian. When I thought I was a failure, I simply wasn't looking at the bigger picture. I was overgeneralizing in thinking I'd always have bad grades. Remember Nobel Prize winning psychologist, Daniel Kahneman's point? Nothing in life is as important as you think it is while you're thinking about it. At that time, I felt like my life was a complete failure. I was obviously wrong. I was also using a mental filter. I was focusing on my one semester's poor grades and obsessing on them and forgetting about everything else. Here were all these good and beautiful things around me everywhere, and I was ignoring them. I was also discounting the positive. I'd worked hard and previously been able to get good grades. I had a wonderful husband who I'd met at the South Pole station in Antarctica. I had my good health. I was also jumping to conclusions. Somehow, in my mind, I was predicting that things would go badly from then on. The reality was that I didn't really know what was going to happen from then on out. I was also mind reading. Thinking that others were going to think badly of me. I really had no idea what other people, like my family, would think. I was falling victim to my own emotional reasoning. I assumed that just because I felt negatively about what had happened, that it really was a negative thing. Actually, my feelings had little to do with what was happening in the real world. The whole incident was equivalent to me feeling terrified of the airplane flight, and the flight was actually perfectly fine. I was telling myself I should have done better. Shouldy kind of thinking, these kinds of statements just aren't helpful. They lead only to guilt, anger, and frustration. I was also using pejoratives of myself. I was telling myself I was stupid, I was an idiot, and that what happened was absolutely terrible. This kind of name calling does no good at all. In fact, it makes you feel bad about yourself and also leaves you feeling angry and frustrated. What happened was unfortunate, but it wasn't terrible. In fact, getting a few bad grades really wasn't a big deal at all in the greater scheme of how my life unfolded. Sometimes we take blame and assume responsibility for errors we didn't make. Or we inappropriately blame others. In my case, I blamed myself for my bad grades. After all, I was to blame for getting away from my studies for a year. But did I really need to drag myself under the bus for having undertaken some great adventures? So we've gone over a list of labels you can use to move yourself from an emotionally based framework to a more rational, calmed down part of the brain where you can more carefully analyze and reason away the distortions in your thinking. In the discussion forum, you might want to mention something, anything that's been bothering you. Then describe what cognitive distortion or distortions you may be using. It might be many of them. Finally, look logically at the distortions you're using. What is the reality when you put things into a greater life perspective just as I've done with that past episode of my own life. Whenever you find yourself growing despondent, sit yourself down, think about what's really bothering you, go back through those labels, and see how your mind is tricking you. Then develop a rational response. You'll be surprised at how much better this can make you feel. There's one more trick you can use to help positively reframe. And that is to find positive ways to think about a negative experience. For example, if you failed at business, think of it as a great learning experience that many ultimately successful entrepreneurs have also had. If you didn't get the job you wanted, well, that's leaving you open for a better job ahead. And meanwhile, it's a great signal for you to upgrade your skills. Did poorly on an exam? Well, maybe that's a clue to examine your study habits. Your best friend dying of cancer? Well, maybe you want to focus on trying to improve the quality of the life your friend has remaining. Positively reframing isn't just mental trickery. It extinguishes negative emotions that are arising from that fight or flight center of the amygdala. It seems that consciously finding a way to change the meaning of what's being experienced reduces the flood of stress-related neurotransmitters that are released by the hyper-vigilant amygdala. You might wonder what positive thing could possibly have come from my having rheumatoid arthritis? Simple, if it helps give you a visual reminder you can call to mind to help calm yourself down and reframe in the face of the stress that will inevitably arise in your life. I'll be back.    There's a lot of misinformation out there about the concept of learning styles. To help keep you on track with your learning, I'd like to give you some quick insight into what researchers have found and what it means for you. People receive and process new information in different ways. Pretty much all researchers agree with that idea. But what supporters of learning styles theory propose is something more. That people learn best when information is presented in a person's preferred learning style. Visual learners for example would recall and understand better if they can see the material as opposed to audio learners who would recall and understand the material better, if they can hear the material. But here's what researcher Beth Rogowsky and her colleges had found when they carefully analyzed some of the most common learning styles. If you take a standardized adult learning style inventory that shows you're a visual learner, you actually don't do any better when you're reading the words, than if you hear the words. Likewise if you test out as an auditory learner, you don't learn any better when you hear the material as opposed to when you can see it. In other words, there is no statistically significant difference when it comes to the relationship between a learning style preference and instructional method for your ability to comprehend the materials. Not only has research shown then that targeting your best learning style, doesn't appear to help you learn better, it seems like relying on your preferred style weakens your ability to learn using other senses. For example, if you think you're an auditory learner and you try to focus on learning by listening, what that means is you're getting less practice with reading, using your eyes. But being able to read well is an important skill in today's world. In fact, if you're an auditory learner, that's what you think you are, and you catered to your supposed need for auditory materials, then you're actually undercutting your ability to learn using one of the most common and important ways that most people receive information, that is, using visual means. How are you going to do well on typical standardized test, for example, if you don't practice the highly visual art of reading. It seems we often learn best when we can integrate what we're learning using a lot of our different senses including hearing, seeing and perhaps especially being able to feel with our hands, like what you're hopefully doing right now, seeing me, listening to what I'm telling you and maybe even taking notes of it with a pen or pencil in your hand. And feeling the paper on your notebook. Learning styles forms a big industry. Authors and companies make a lot of money from the tests they devise, administer, and teach workshops about. So there's a big push to the idea that teaching to learning styles is important, even if there's a lack of scientific evidence for these claims, and even if teaching to learning styles can actually be harmful. So, a word to the wise, whenever you're learning something, try to take advantage of all of your senses. Don't characterize yourself as just having one preferred learning style. Instead think of yourself as an all inclusive type learner, you'll learn so much better as a result.  In this video, we're going to explore a question that many educators find a little bit uncomfortable. Can you try to learn too much? Ana Belen Sanchez-Prieto, professor of medieval manuscript studies and archive management in Madrid gives interesting insight about this. Ana had her doubts about online education, but when she was given the opportunity to teach a MOOC, she decided to do some exploration to get a better understanding of the online world. Since Ana was going to create an online class, she wanted to try one out herself first. >> I took the MOOC, Archaeology's Little Dirty Secrets And I loved it. It gave me a lot of ideas for my own online class. But I also learned that I had a lot to learn about effective teaching, so I enrolled in another MOOC, Foundations of Teaching for Learning. Then I took the complete specialization. Then I took every education-related MOOC I could find. But then, I began to discover that I could take MOOCs on things I wondered about but have never had the chance to learn, such as computers. Dr Chuck's classes on the Internet and Python were fantastic eye openers. Then I started taking classes on HTML and other tools for web development. Then I started working my way through math with Khan Academy. I'll be honest, I got carried away. It caused real stress because I also have my own classes. My social life began vanishing. Finally, I have to face it, I was addicted to MOOCs and what is worse? I often wasn't really learning because I was focused more on finishing and getting the certificate. In the end I realized that many things can be interesting to learn about, but I had to choose. >> A few months after her cold turkey withdrawal from MOOCs, Ana went back to MOOCing but this time she took a more balanced approach. She started sitting in on a MOOC on game design so she can apply gaming techniques to improve her classes. She's planning to repeat the gaming class again before formally enrolling, so she really learns the material. Ana's objective now is simply to learn but not to be overwhelmed and in the end Ana's MOOC, Deciphering secrets:The illuminated Manuscripts of Medieval Europe finally launched. But Ana's path to balance inner life and her learning be a guide for you. Happy balanced mindshift.  This week, we're going to be doing a little brain excavation to learn that focusing intently isn't always the best thing for optimal learning and mind shifting. We'll discover other valuable methods to enhance your learning. And we'll see some unbelievable feats people can accomplish using these techniques. We'll also warn you about popular learning approaches that research has shown are actually harmful. Perhaps most importantly, we'll give you tools to help slip past your inner procrastinator and other proven tools to help you reframe and reduce stress. All this and more in this week's Mindshift. 