Tomorrow is the vernal equinox, and when the sun enters Aries. From here, you’ll have more daylight than dark. From here, you don’t need to doubt yourself, and you don’t need to behave. On Thursday, Mercury goes retrograde, but even this can’t stop all the sweetness of these days.

This week, you might feel something in the sky become right again. Imagine that you’re allowed to give free rein to the best parts of yourself. Imagine that you can be as wild as you like, as funny, as exuberant, and there won’t be anyone to stop you. Not even your friends, not even the moon, not even your boss, not even yourself.

You might see some kind of pattern emerging this week, one you hadn’t thought of before, simple and surprising and clean. It won’t be some grand unifying theory of your life, but it could be a small gift — a new way to understand the depth of your love, the shape of your need. When you look in this new way, which lines start to straighten, and which ones bend? Don’t try to know everything, but try to watch, open-hearted, the patterns that form.

This isn’t a week to leave your hunger drifting and ambiguous. You can’t live a life untouched by forces larger than you, but remember that you have your own power, your own energy, your own ability to move. You don’t have to see the whole future before making a choice. The world is strange in its vastness, but it’s strange in its specificity too.

You don’t have to be consistent your whole life long — you don’t have to leave behind a trail of bread crumbs for anyone to follow. Your body isn’t a machine, it’s just a body. Your mind isn’t a computer, it’s a forest, it’s an ocean, it’s a whole glittering galaxy. It’s possible to stay solid and true, and leave room for surprises too.

You’ve lived through so much sorrow already, and you’ve spoken so many feelings out loud, and you’ve been strange sometimes, and you’ve been wrong. This week, you don’t have to be so afraid. At your strange, twisty core, you’re pure and alive and okay. You can do the difficult work of knowing yourself, and the knowledge won’t break you.

You might notice that other people’s attention makes you bristle this week, or it makes you squirm, or it makes you wilt, drained and depleted. You don’t have to share your whole self with the whole world, and you don’t have to perform for every audience that asks to see you. Remember the stories of the people who came before you, powerful and strange.

This is a week for some kind of memory — for bearing witness to the past, or for committing the present to memory, for holding your knowledge tightly so that you can carry it with you into the future. You don’t have to remember every moment, every sunrise, every word, but you can remember how this life feels. You can remember the people you know, and the ways they’ve been brave.

Remind yourself this week that it isn’t your job to make the world turn smoothly. It isn’t up to you to rid every day of all difficulty. Don’t shy away from making sudden movements, or be afraid to be the unexpected. Your powerful fury and your wild desire aren’t problems to be fixed. They’re tools, or they’re fuel, or they’re gifts. You’re allowed to speak the truth as you see it. You’re allowed to live how you need.

Already, you’re unafraid of doing what’s difficult, unafraid of facing an unknown space, of taking the unmapped path through the mountains. You know how to face the road that’s difficult, but remind yourself this week that you don’t always have to avoid the path that’s easy. Sometimes there’s strength to be found through struggle, but don’t spurn the gifts you already have.

There’s excitement ahead of you this week, there’s a world full of light and song, there’s something good beginning. It isn’t a bad thing to get swept away, once in a while, in the joy of it all. You don’t have to worry about losing the quiet voice inside you. You’re too solid for that, too brave. It isn’t a bad thing to let yourself become loud, to let yourself become fearless.

The seasons are changing, and the days are becoming bright again, strange again, clear again. You’ve traveled a difficult path over unimaginable distances to get here. It’s hard to believe that you won’t have to work this hard forever, but it’s true. The sun shines down on the rooftops, it shines down on the trees, and it shines down on you, warm and gentle.

Believing what you want to believe can be dangerous sometimes, a way to lose touch with the solid world around you, a way to forget everything but yourself. This week, though, it’s okay to believe what you want. It’s okay to believe what you feel, as long as you’re courageous, as long as you stay open and true. This is a way to reject the poisonous stories that move through the air. It’s a way to keep loving yourself, and the people around you, against all odds.
The moon will wane all week until Saturday’s Pisces new moon. The sky will appear empty, and the whole night will stretch out before you. With all this space to move in, with all this space to dream, you don’t have to name all the feelings that move you. Your thoughts might not be practical, but they don’t need to be.

Toward the strange end of winter, it becomes easy to forget all the ways you know how to move your body; it becomes easy to forget what it feels like to be warm. It isn’t impossible, even now, that the world will change completely. Maybe tomorrow or maybe today, some sunlight will touch your skin and allow you to move freely again.

This week might offer you the opportunity to confront what you’re afraid of — maybe a dark dream, maybe a dull and aching lack. Confrontation can be a sweet and fearsome gift; try not to be afraid. You won’t be diminished, you won’t be cut down, you won’t be turned to stone. Don’t forget this. Let it play over and over in your head, like a song.

Even intimacy can become unbearable sometimes. Even goodness, even love can grow too heavy to hold. This week, just give yourself permission to look for ways outside of yourself. Can you leave your house for an afternoon? Can you leave your work behind? Try to remember a world that’s quiet, a world where your dreams can move however they like, just for the joy of it.

If you take away what isn’t important, what remains? This question might haunt you this week, but it doesn’t have to be about austerity, about some vision of life stripped of all laughter and song. You can decide that joy, too, is indispensable. You can decide that strangeness is as good as solidity. Don’t turn your back on the mysteries left in the world.

You’re human already, of course, but every day you’re becoming more human, too. This might be a good week to remind yourself of the ways you’re still learning. For all your splendor and all your fire, your body is soft, and your mind is still turning, still reaching, still growing toward the sun. Don’t expect yourself to control the flow and drift of time.

If this week offers you the chance to change your mind, will you change it? If this week offers you the chance to reverse course, will you turn around? There’s an unexpected sweetness that comes with shifting your gaze. It doesn’t mean you were wrong before, just that maybe the conditions have changed.

It’s okay to let quietness overtake you this week. It’s okay to let stillness fill your heart. You don’t have to light every room you enter; you don’t have to sparkle every time someone asks. Your powers are shifting inside you, some new kind of strength is crystallizing, and you don’t have to let anyone else watch as it happens. This is a week for leaving some thoughts unsaid.

It’s one thing to know your true wildness, and it’s one thing to recognize your bright heavy power — believing in your goodness, real and deep, is something else altogether. It isn’t easy to value the quiet parts of yourself, the parts that aren’t celebrated, that aren’t always even seen. This week, try to give yourself the credit you deserve.

If you find yourself in a weird underground space this week, if you find yourself in some endless foggy day, just work on finding your way out of here. Just because you can’t yet see the light above ground, that doesn’t mean it isn’t there. If you keep moving, you can feel the fresh morning air on your face.

When you feel lost, it’s tempting to try to work toward the middle, toward some imagined place of safety and balance. It’s tempting to work to become average, to become simple, to make yourself easily seen and easily known. But this week, direct your energy to the edges, toward the places that are strange, unknown, unimagined. It’s not a week for going easy on yourself — it’s a week for being brave enough to let yourself get weird.

Is there an old idea, too unwieldy to use, that you’ve kept buried inside yourself? Is there a dream, too fragile to touch, you’ve kept wrapped up in the closet? This is a week for returning to the thoughts you’ve let age, the ones you’ve let ripen, the ones that have grown quietly, untended, untamed. It’s hard to know which seeds, left alone, will take root.

There’s so much in the world you see clearly, and there’s so much you know only as an instinct, a quiet impression, a gentle tug on the back of your mind. This week, don’t worry so much about untangling it all. Don’t worry about explaining yourself; don’t worry about language at all. This week, try to trust the feelings you can’t put into words.
Tomorrow, Mercury and Venus both enter Aries. With Mercury, your language becomes energetic and your thoughts move forward. Your words don’t need to find balance; they only need to move. With Venus, your desire starts to sharpen — feel it grow tired of waiting, and ready itself to act.

If you feel your muscles fill with a crackling energy, if you feel your mind swell with wisdom as clear as the morning, this might be a good time to think about the days ahead. You have the clarity of vision to see all the way to the horizon, and you have the clarity of energy not to be afraid of what you see. Will you keep going on this path, or will you change course?

It’s good to live in a world full of texture and touch, but this week, you might let yourself float a little. You might give yourself over to dreams. Other people can look at you with sharp and ungenerous eyes sometimes, but you aren’t defined by what they think they can see. You have a bright energy that nobody else can own.

Remind yourself this week that you deserve a good life, no more and no less than anyone else, and you owe it to no one to make a case for this. You don’t have to keep all your virtue on constant display. You don’t have to prove your worth through endless toil or endless fear, though there are people who will ask this of you. You’re allowed to believe in joy for no reason at all.

This week, your goal doesn’t need to be to keep the world in a perfect winter stasis. Sometimes growth looks like green buds on the trees, and sometimes it looks like loss, at first. You can’t hold tight to everything, not even your stories, not even your memories, and that’s okay. Your task right now is just to stay in motion, and to keep your heart true.

There are so many ways to imagine a world beyond isolation. You can forge some new connection with the people in your life, or you can rediscover some bright link to your ancestors, or you can discover some other, more surprising kind of love. This week, you can decide what truths you’ll recognize and who you’ll stand in solidarity with.

If the world seems to go foggy this week, if it becomes hard to know which voices to trust, you can still trust your own curiosity. When nobody else is there to offer directions, when nobody else is offering a story that moves you, you can be your own guide. You can refuse to be lied to, and you can refuse to lie to yourself. You know who you are, and you already know the way.

You’ve lived through so much heartache, and your wisdom has deepened, glowing quiet and silver in the night. You can see the world clearly, and you can see the possibilities available to you. Still, try to remember that you’re allowed to desire unwisely, too. You’re allowed to want more than you think is prudent. You know the limits of this world, and you understand its edges, but let yourself imagine a place beyond.

There’s so much you carry on your back with you, just in case you need it, and even for you, it gets tiring. You can be brave and wild and free, but you can’t be everything you need, and you don’t have to be. It’s not a week for doing battle with every bad feeling, or for trying to change your whole history. It’s just a week to let yourself be a little soft when you need to be.

You already know that you don’t have to look to anyone else to tell you who you are, but it might be worth reminding yourself of that this week. It’s so hard and so rare to be known truly, and there’s such loneliness in imagining that you might never be really seen. This can make you imagine some need to change, to become simpler. This week, don’t let yourself off so easy. There are truths that you have to find for yourself, that no one else can tell you.

This week, if you feel self-doubt creeping up on you, you can brush it out of your head gently. Know that you’re on the right path now, though it isn’t an easy one. Know that you’re doing what you can. Let yourself be, for now, undistracted. You don’t have to square off against your own worst feelings. You can focus, instead, on the work that you love, and the work you need to do.

Even when you’re building a necessary new world, you’re allowed to enjoy your time. Even when you’re struggling to string your days together, you’re still allowed to rest. You can take a nap in the afternoon, doing nothing productive with the daylight, just watching it stream quietly through your window. You’re doing what you can, and your job isn’t only to save the world from disaster. You’re here to experience sweetness, too.

This week, try to trust yourself. It’s a week to believe in your own dignity, to break rules with a brave smile and a clear heart. You know the shape of the world you move through, and you can recognize goodness when you hear its sound, like a bird call, like a river, like an echo in the mountains. You’ve gathered all the clues you need, and you’ve pieced a story together. You don’t have to keep gathering answers forever; there are truths you already know.
The moon waxes bright this week, culminating in a full moon in Virgo on Thursday. In the middle of sweet Pisces season, this is a chance to feel your physical body, a chance to solve a concrete problem, a chance to do something good for the aching world. There’s intensity in the sky, and on the ground there’s kindness and love so solid you can almost touch them.

Maybe it’s good not to dwell in too much darkness, and maybe it’s good not to make a home in these deep caves of loss or pain, but still it’s important not to ignore them. Let yourself feel the rhythm of the bad thoughts that move through you. Let yourself greet them, not as old friends, but as something ancient and natural as the sky.

The problems in the world, like the problems in your own life, are rarely simple — they’re so often tangled, their roots deep underground. Still, this week, it can help to try to state a question in simple words. It can help to imagine your fear as a thing with edges, a thing you can touch.

There have been impossible situations before now, and there have been days of mud and rain and strange yellow skies. You’ve lived through uncertainty and you’ve lived through storms and you’ve found your feet again; you’ve kept living. You don’t have to dream of some vague, better future. Instead, you can light a fire or you can light a lamp. There are so many ways to find just the thing you need.

Sometimes it’s the loneliness that’s most difficult to bear, but sometimes loneliness feels like a balm, like a blanket, like a gentle friend from long ago. Sometimes, the harder thing is to share a world with other people — with strangers on the street, alive and unpredictable in their own wild rhythms, or with the people you already love, whose names and voices you know as well as your own. You’re surviving this harsh, noisy world, but you don’t have to make it look easy.

The stakes are high and the world spins fast and there’s so much that needs to be done. This week will ask you to live more slowly than you’d like, and it’s okay. There are other people around you, working and fighting just like you are. There’s a rhythm somewhere deep in the Earth, and you might feel it if you hold still.

It’s frightening, sometimes, to claim your own ideas, or to speak your own thoughts, or to know your own true name. Dreaming wild dreams comes easily enough, but it’s harder to let those dreams solidify into desires, and harder still to let them out in the world to breathe, to take small, shaky steps. If the weight of your own power starts to overwhelm you, think of everything you’re not afraid of.

When you feel lost, like you’re trapped in some dense forest, or abandoned in some wide barren land, stop and look around you. Even inhospitable landscapes offer colors and sunsets and song, and you can learn to keep living. You can learn how to navigate by new rivers and new stars. You might feel fear under this new sky, but you’ll find your way home again. And for now, here in the thick of it, you’re learning more than you think you are.

The past holds mysteries and the past holds magic. It can serve as a powerful magnet for you, but you don’t have to keep looking behind you forever. The past isn’t the only place where your truest self lives, or the place that holds all the joy you’ll ever know. You don’t have to leave your memories behind, but you can change and grow and become new. This is a week for imagining a life you’ve never seen before, and moving toward it.

With a pure heart and clear vision, there’s nothing to fear, but it’s so hard to be pure-hearted in a world this full of darkness. It’s so hard not to become careless in a world that moves this fast. This week, you don’t have to be distracted by noise or desire or even exhaustion. No matter how far or how fast you move, you can stay anchored by your truest self. If you remember where you came from, you won’t be pulled off course.

It’s important, this week, to acknowledge the work you’ve already done. When the sun rises in the morning, you aren’t starting from scratch, and you aren’t starting from nothing. Even your wildest ideas have grown out of something inside you; even your steeliest courage didn’t appear as a gift from the sky. You’re in the middle of a long road, and you’ve traveled so far to get here. Just try to give yourself a little credit.

If the world feels too heavy and too large to do everything on your own, that’s because it is. This is a week to get free of your own impulse toward heroism, toward perfect independence. You can lean on other people, and you can be leaned on. You can ask for help and give credit where it’s due. There are so many ways to build new networks of support, strong as steel and alive as a forest. You can imagine a different, sweeter kind of freedom than the one you’ve held in your head for so long.

There are some secrets that will finally become known to you, or some mysteries that will slowly become clear this week in the blue evenings. If you didn’t focus on feelings of doubt or fear or scarcity, what other ways of knowing the world could come into focus? You’re capable of desiring futures better than anything you’ve thought of before. You’ve traveled so far already, and you’ve grown strong and strange and brave. Don’t lose heart yet.
Yesterday, the sun entered Pisces, marking a new season of wisdom and feeling. Will you notice when your emotions change shape? Remember to pay attention to where the sorrow lives inside you, and where in your body you store your love.

It can seem impossible, in a world built on structures of hardship and scarcity, that anyone is still be allowed to dream as wildly as you dream. In a time so bent on limits and destruction, it can feel unbelievable that your imagination can still soar and sing. You can do the work, believing someday we’ll come out on the other side of this.

There are other ways to bear witness to the sorrows of the world than to let every heavy bad feeling wash over you, over and over again, as constant and cold as the tides. Even when you’re giving everything you have, try to hold something back — a thought, a memory, a love as bright as the sea. Keep something private, something that’s only for you.

This is a week for some of the quieter tasks of living, for doing the laundry or sweeping the front stoop or answering the phone when your neighbor needs you. Sometimes the work of building a better world feels bright and electric, and sometimes it’s an altogether quieter kind of job. There’s joy that comes from sweeping change, and joy that comes from watering your plants and watching them thrive.

There are so many rules about what’s possible in this world, so many rules about how much you’re allowed to want. This week, try discarding one of the rules. Do you feel lighter? Do you notice something else, something sharper, glinting bright in the sun, rise to fill its place? You can test the places where your own knowledge of the world might have been wrong.

In the lonely blue mornings, and then again in the evenings filled with color and song, the world will ask you to be generous with yourself this week. It’s a weirder, more difficult task than it seems. You don’t have to limit yourself to the ideas you’ve had before, or to the ideas you know you can prove. You don’t have to limit yourself to the kinds of love you can easily explain.

If you’ve been working in solitude, could it be time to start working now with somebody new? This is a week for surprising collaborations, a week for stretching yourself out. This isn’t about crossing some imaginary aisle just for the sake of it, or about disturbing some bright and dangerous boundary just for the sake of making a mess. Rather, it’s a week for letting other people shake up the ways you know yourself in relation to the world.

When you’re exhausted, it’s easy to listen closest to the voices that are loudest, to the songs that are most insistent, to the stories with clear and easy answers. But even if you’re tired, this is a week to resist that. It’s a week for listening to words spoken softly, and listening to the stories that have been hidden and forgotten. It’s a week for digging for the truths that lie buried in the quiet soil, waiting to be heard.

When you get turned around, or when you forget what you were looking for in the first place, it can help to retrace your steps. It’s okay to question why you think the things you think. It’s okay to backtrack, to revisit the places and the people you’ve been before. Some of the songs in your head were written long before you were born. Some of the feelings you carry, of love or shame, no longer serve you, and you can let them fall gently to the ground.

It might be helpful to make moves toward some kind of extravagance — not luxury, not waste, but the extravagance of believing you deserve color and sweetness and surprise. And it isn’t that you have to go wild, or that you have to lose your bearings in the search for the life that you want. You don’t have to deny yourself any shred of excess joy, any sliver of extra comfort.

Letting feeling guide you can feel uncomfortable at first, a slow strange discomfort that creeps through your bones. But you’ll survive this discomfort, and once you make it through, you’ll be met with possibilities you never imagined. Once you refuse to live according to the logic of those in power, you open up different directions of motion, and different modes of stillness, too.

When you feel the weight of the world pressing on you, it’s hard to remember you’ve ever had any choices at all. When your own life seems heavy and dense as a stone, it’s hard to remember how brave you’ve been before, and how that courage is still stored in your bones, alive and waiting. Try committing some small act of rebellion this week, to remind you who you really are.

You’re good at seeing the world for what it is, and for noticing the roots and strings and glue that hold our stories together. Lately, though, it might have felt hard to get all the story you needed, hard to hold on to your sense of the full round world, all bright and connected. This week, your sense of wholeness might start to return to you. It doesn’t mean you have to know everything, but it does mean you might find your balance again.
This Thursday, a new moon in Aquarius can clear out some room in your head. Where there once was a mess, where there once was a muddle, now there’s a clean quiet space full of air and light. From here, you can set a new course.

When you encounter a problem too dark to see into, too thick to unravel, it can feel natural to face it with fire. This week, though, it won’t be your power that gets you through these strange tight places. Try stepping back. Try listening to the voices around you, and feeling the vibrations in the street.

If you were to allow yourself to be less critical of yourself, it wouldn’t mean sacrificing your sharp sense of responsibility to the aching world. It’s just about allowing yourself to shift your mode of interacting with the world. You don’t have to keep measuring your progress, your productivity. Every person has their own shape, their own energy, their own music. You have yours too, wild and surprising and good.

Which of your dreams call out to you in the morning, and which sing to you at night? Which feel like they’ve been ground down over time? It’s so hard to be alive, and harder still to keep living. This is a week for recovering the wildness inside you that’s gone dormant to survive the winter. It’s a week for remembering your center, for remembering your bright heat.

You might feel yourself getting distracted, but this isn’t a week to try to force yourself into some kind of iron discipline. Try to lean in to your distractions for a while. Try to pay attention to each sound and each mood that pulls at you. Allow yourself to take the movements of your own mind seriously. Let your own surprises keep unfolding.

You do so much work to survive, and you give so love much to other people. It’d be easy to imagine you’re the only one who really cares, but you aren’t, and you don’t have to carry everyone you love on your shoulders. Your energy is bright, and you could use it to heat a whole house, to light a whole city, but that doesn’t mean you have to. Other people might surprise you, if you let them.

It can be hard to know when to close a door, and even harder just to know when you’re standing in a doorway at all. It’s not always easy to track the movements of your own life, to see the beginnings and endings as they happen. Even if your days just seem to blur into each other, even as your life feels flat or bleak, there’s magic and there’s change in the ground under your feet. What sorrow might be coming to an end? What joy might be waiting, just down the hall?

You’re so wise in the ways of other people; you’re able to see so clearly the stops and starts, the twists and changes in their lives. Remember that you don’t have to see yourself with that kind of sharpness. Your knowledge of yourself is made of a stranger, more delicate material. You have access to a deep dreamy magic, and sometimes it’s hard to know where the dreams end and where the solid world begins. But remember, clarity isn’t the only truth.

This week, somewhere deep in your own head, a curtain might part, or a shadow might lift, and you’ll be able to see all the love and splendor that still remains possible. It takes courage to believe in a future. It takes hard work to keep chasing a vision as beautiful as yours. Sometimes, the weight of the world presses down on you so hard that it takes all your strength just to stay alive, but this week you can let your imagination become broad again.

You’ve been alive long enough that you know yourself. You know what feats you’re capable of, and what weaknesses haunt you, and what sorrows could reduce you to dust. This is a week for looking at your own face in the mirror and daring to see yourself clearly. How will you know your own history? How will you learn to be kind to yourself?

It can feel so hard to feel like you’re making any progress, like the entire world is made of beginnings and middles without end. And still, in the middle of these vast plains, there are moments of surprise. Low hills rise up, and the sun sets orange and gold. Look over your shoulder and you’ll see how far you’ve come already. There are worse things than striking out into the world, again and again.

When everything you’re working on feels too complicated, try to return to some kind of beginning. You’ve built this tall tower, or you’ve reached this lush green canopy, but it’s good to return to the ground once in a while. It doesn’t mean you’re starting over, just that you’re remembering the basics of your body, your language, your melty blue thoughts. When you get overwhelmed, you can break down the complicated questions until their components are small enough to be held.

This week, you might feel a desire to turn some structure upside down, to turn a whole way of knowing on its head. It’s easy to mistake a desire for change for a destructive impulse, but the two aren’t always the same. Turning a thing upside down can be an act of gentleness, an act of generosity, a move toward a different way of seeing. You don’t have to be afraid of the oceans inside you. You can let the tides do their work.
On Saturday, Venus leaves Aquarius and enters Pisces. You might feel your emotions broaden without reason; you might feel their edges blur. Maybe a new compassion will suddenly sprung up in your heart. Maybe you’ll feel a tenderness that wasn’t there before, as sweet as the morning, as quiet as snow.

If you pay attention this week, you’ll see small reminders that the world could have become different. You might notice moments when a road could have turned, when a sadness could have lifted, when a violence could have been made right. It hurts sometimes to think of the lush green worlds that never came into being, but don’t let that be your focus. This is a week for reminding yourself of the doors that are still open.

Sometimes it’s overwhelming to know how many choices are still your own to make, but you don’t need to be told what to do, and you don’t even need a map. There’s a compass needle swinging in your dreams. Even if you don’t know your destination yet, you know who you are, and you know which way is up. This is a week for trusting your instincts, your senses, your desires.

It can feel strange and difficult, trying to balance the wild spontaneity in your thoughts with the complete, quiet tenderness in your heart. How can one person be so focused on the world outside, and so self-contained at the same time? How can one person carry so much lavish wilderness and so much gentle love? This week, don’t worry so much about balancing and deciphering each part of yourself. What looks like a contradiction is often just a connection you haven’t figured out yet.

On days when the air is coldest, on days when you’re lonely and the sunlight is weak, you might hear an easier life calling out to you. Softness can seem so tempting in a world that makes you work this hard. And sometimes, it’s true that you don’t need to make things so hard on yourself. But sometimes, ease isn’t the thing that will save you. Some problems ask for softness, but some require your fire. This is a week for working to know the difference.

These are days for gazing out a window into a snowy field, days for watching a clock without knowing what you’re waiting for. It’s strange and painful to hold desires not knowable even to yourself, and painful to know that other people don’t have your answers, either. Sometimes, mysteries just need time.

This week, when just living seems weird or impossible, you might look to other people who have survived, and other people who have built the kind of worlds you’re seeking. Your deep, glowing independence doesn’t mean you have to do everything on your own. You just need to try, with and alongside other people, to find a space to live, and to let other people live, too.

You have desires that live in language and desires that live in your skin and it’s not always easy finding the balance between the two. It’s not easy to want anything at all, let alone to want in such wild and blooming and contradictory ways. This week, just try to notice which desires sustain you, and which seem to shrink your power to nothing.

Most of the time you can feel the courage and the fire inside yourself, then sometimes, suddenly, a fear rises up that makes it difficult even to move. Your own insides are so tender, and the whole planet is so vulnerable and alive, and it’s hard to know how to live through this. This week is for remembering ways to keep going.

Maybe you’ve entered some kind of new phase lately, or maybe you’re still just dreaming of it. Maybe you’re finally getting something you’ve wanted for a long time, or maybe you’re finally leaving a place you’re grown too powerful for. This is a week for developing new strategies of living, a week for letting go of what no longer serves you. Growth isn’t always easy, even for you, but there’s a light in the sky, and there’s a path forward that you’re brave enough to take.

Not every good action will come naturally to you, and not everything that comes naturally is good, but still you have your own gifts, and it’s okay to learn to use them. You don’t have to be suspicious of everything that tastes sweet. You don’t have to strive your whole life to obey someone else’s idea of what it means to live. You can trust your own body instead.

You might experience some kind of urgency this week, an urgency in the world outside or an urgency in your skin, but that doesn’t mean you have to let yourself be rushed. Questions can’t all be handled quickly, and desires can take strange, long paths. Try to resist being pulled onto somebody else’s imagined timeline.

This week, you might feel your view of the world stretch and expand. There’s so much to hold in your mind — so much history, so many faces, so many colors in the sky. And the broader the world seems, the smaller your own self can feel before it. This can feel like a limitation, but it’s not. You don’t have to contain the whole world inside your head, you just have to rise to meet it. Let your thoughts be fragmented and intimate and strange.
On Wednesday, there will be a total lunar eclipse in Leo, which will magnify and intensify the power of the full moon. If some old truth has been building up inside you, you might find yourself ready to speak it out loud. What change are you finally ready for?

Try to slow your brain down just a little this week. Knowing every development on the earth’s surface won’t be enough to save you, and neither will moving so fast you can never be wrong. Instead, take the time to notice your plants in the kitchen that need water, or your neighbor who needs help with the door, or your friend who’s lonely for the sound of your voice.

Sometimes you hear a humming noise in your dreams, and sometimes you hear sounds recognizable as words, and sometimes you hear a full-throated roar, the faraway ocean singing to you. This week, messages will arrive from unexpected places, and you should listen, if you can. You can seek a life with different rules, so listen to the dreams that will help you find it.

People will expect you, sometimes, to overcome all the pain in the world with nothing more than your energy, or your hope, or a practice of gratitude. And even though these things can be good and sweet, you don’t have to expect your private emotional exertion to be enough to save you. You can spread your quiet goodness in the world, and you can ask for help in return.

It’s one thing to envision the world ending tomorrow, and another to imagine that life could just keep going on like this. It’s one thing to imagine one bright, brief moment of crisis, and another to try to keep living for the long term. If the earth is still below you and the sky is still above, how will you keep filling your heart?

Even in the winter, even now as the world seems to keep cracking apart, you’ve been strong enough to keep moving. You’ve been brave enough to hold on to your sunlit dreams of what’s possible. And sometimes, when you’re as bright and as stubborn as this, it’s easy to take on more pain than is yours — you bear it so bravely, so well. But this week, try not to take on more grief than already belongs to you.

The world shapes your dreams and it shapes your desires, and how could it not? It’s not wrong to be made of language, not wrong to be made of this green earth. It isn’t your job to transcend the place you came from. It isn’t your job to be better than anyone else. There are still so many different ways of growing.

Some of your actions are born from a joy, or a wisdom, or a bright blazing conviction in your soul. Some of your actions are born from your need for survival, and this is okay, too. This is a week for knowing the difference. There are lines that constrain you, and there are ways you’re still free. Which houses can you still refuse to enter? Which stories, even now, can you still refuse to believe?

You, more than anyone, know how to focus your energies. You know how to shine a beam of attention so bright and direct it could burn a hole through the wall. But still, sometimes the world can pull you away from your real purpose. Sometimes the world’s dramas and cruelties spin so fast and shine so bright, you can hardly look away. This is a week for refocusing. It’s a week for treating your respect and attention like the uncommon powers they are.

This week, it can feel easy to strive for some kind of perfection — to strive for work so good it will never be challenged, a truth so clear it can never be argued. But even if you could find this, what would you do with a beautiful system devoid of air to breathe? What would you do with a door shut so tight it can’t be reopened? There’s no perfect ending, just different ways to keep trying, all tangled and layered together.

It’s easy to look to the future and dream a dream, and it’s easy to look to the past and tell a story. And it becomes easy, sometimes, to lose track of your own place in the world, and to forget about the wonders and the wilderness that exist in the same point in time as you. There are so many stories of our world gone dull and lifeless, and stories of our world become entirely cruel, but underneath all this there’s still mystery.

You speak your own language, and you dream at your own wild pace, and there’s nothing wrong with the shape of your life, or the pitch of your voice, or the ways you know how to move. Of course you know this already, but sometimes it’s hard to really feel it. Inside all the fire and the heat of a day, it can be hard to remember. This week, don’t shrink yourself to match the size of some imagined real world.

You can resist feelings of selfishness this week, and you can resist feelings of greed. You can resist the defensive tightening of your heart. If the only thing in the whole world is change, would that change the way you move? If there’s nothing you can hold on to, nothing you can keep in the end, would it change the choices you make? If there’s no way to predict the thing that comes next, what freedom would it give you to imagine this week, and next?
There is a full moon in Cancer today, the first day of the year. Remember, even now, it’s still possible to care for the world, and to be cared for by it. If you notice some sudden piercing insight, how will you follow this knowledge into the days ahead?
Before you make your next big move, before you set your course, before you call upon all your powerful magic, give yourself a moment to feel. Acknowledge the heaviness in your limbs, or the pressure inside your head, or the sorrow when you think of somebody you miss. If your feelings make it difficult to move today, it’s okay. This won’t be your only chance.
Sometimes growth is a result of your own hard work, and sometimes it’s something you didn’t get to choose, the effect of some trial, some struggle you endured. You don’t have to mourn for the way you used to be. Your body has experienced pain, but it’s felt sweetness, too. Don’t wish this difficult knowledge away.
You’re allowed to change your mind, and then you’re allowed to change it again. You’re allowed to dream many dreams at once. In the days ahead, some part of your life that once looked gray might suddenly, like a sunrise, turn pink. In the days ahead, some poisonous force inside you might suddenly lose its power.
Remind yourself that the language you know is as real as any other; the wisdom your body holds is solid and true. Your job in the days ahead isn’t to change your shape and become some utterly new kind of person. Instead, it’s to give voice to the tenderness you already feel, or to speak the truths you already know, or to help the courage inside you grow stronger.
If your heart feels unbearably full, if your emotions seem overpowering, remember that they won’t always be this way. Some days will be dull, and some simple, and some so full of activity that there will hardly be room for anything else. But if your heart is full right now, try to remember what this feels like. Try to store all this tenderness away for later. It can guide you when you need it again.
 It’s easy, sometimes, to focus on the way desire feels in your body — the electric heat on your skin, or your quickening heartbeat. This kind of yearning can be sweet, a quiet gift of its own. Just wanting something this much can change you. If you can make yourself vulnerable enough to want something incredible, then you can make yourself brave, too.
You might feel some kind of pressure today to crack all your feelings open, to find some immediate, elegant solution to the puzzle of being a person. And maybe this week can offer you a chance to change your whole life, but it won’t be the only chance. Your wisdom is deeper than you realize, and sometimes it reveals itself slowly.
The earth outside might be frozen and hard, the wind blowing through your jacket. You’re tough and you’re wise, and you know how to survive, but it’s important not to forget what else there is in the world. You can nurture your love through the winter, until the sun grows strong again. You can nurture your goodness through dry seasons and floods. Don’t plan your whole life around hardship or scarcity. You’re allowed your joy, too.
The feelings that are heaviest in your heart right now aren’t the forces that will rule you forever. The course you’re on wasn’t inevitable, and it isn’t inescapable. Your feelings might be powerful, they might shine like a beacon or work like a spell, but your legs are strong too, and so is your heart. There are so many ways forward from here.
You’ve been working hard out in the world, and you’ve been working hard inside yourself, too. It’s easy to feel all the ways the world shapes and moves you, and harder to see what your own work means. This week, take a moment to recognize how hard you’ve been trying. None of your efforts have been in vain; you’ve set something good into motion. What will you do when it arrives?
There will be moments when it feels like the edges of your life are shrinking, and there will be moments when it feels like there’s not enough space to breathe. You don’t have to accept a life too small to fit you, but you don’t have to abandon your whole world, either. You have the power to choose which rules you’ll follow and which you’ll flout.
It can be hard to shake the feeling that there’s something you should be doing, something grand and brave and good, something bright enough to make your whole life glow. It can be hard not to look for natural beginnings and ends — a clearly marked trail leading into the dark, quiet forest, or a wide empty highway marking your way across the plains. But you can make a change whenever you need one. The moon grows bright, then dark, and then bright again.
The sun is now in Capricorn, and early this morning, Venus entered Capricorn. Saturn is in Capricorn, too, and the days are getting longer again. This week, the strength in your thoughts can become strength in your body. Your dreams can turn into plans, or your desires can turn into a strange, steady love.

 Someday, you’ll look back and imagine you can see a line connecting your whole life, all the work that you’ve done today to the future you’ve built. For now, though, it’s still impossible to see what comes next. From here, nothing feels linear and nothing feels easy, and this is where the real sweetness happens. This week is for the work you do when you don’t know the answers yet.

 Sorrow can’t stop you from trying, and fear can’t stop you from carrying on, and even an unwieldy joy can’t keep you from being brave enough to keep going. You don’t have to feel unconflicted about your human body here on earth. You don’t have to create some fresh theory that makes it feel sweet and good to be alive right now. If you have a goal, you can slowly move toward it, and that’s enough.

 It can be harder to believe in your own goodness when it’s this dark in the morning. These are the times when it’s most difficult to believe that your generosity is vital and true, but it is. You’re just doing your best to make it through these days, the same as anybody else, but you have enough light left in you to share it.

 It’s so easy, this time of year, to focus on the darkness of the night and the shortness of the afternoon. Maybe there’s ice clouding your window, or maybe there’s gray light outside. Maybe you miss your old friends, or maybe you miss the person you used to be. But remember, you’re traveling fast around the sun; it’s okay to look backward.

 The whole world is crowded, and the seas grow warmer, and it seems wild to imagine that in the middle of all this, there’s still value in your own life, that there’s still a reason for staying accountable to yourself. But it’s no small thing to really be responsible for your life here on our big shared planet. This work matters, as much as anything else.

 There’s one kind of hope that blooms in the space of dreams, but there’s a hope that blooms here on the ground, too. There’s the future that lives in your head, shimmering golden on the horizon, but there’s an earthier, dirtier future, too. Idealism doesn’t only have to live in the faraway future. You can find the hope in the practical, everyday work of building a world.

 Green life can grow in the cracks in the sidewalk, and moss can stay green and alive all winter long. Loneliness can live even in the middle of the best, brightest days, and there’s nothing wrong with you for feeling it when it arrives. There’s nothing wrong with you for wanting more than what you’ve been given. There’s nothing wrong with continuing to dream, even when the news seems bleak.

 Sometimes you want to be unforgiving, you want to be merciless, you want to wield power like the crashing ocean, vast and blue and inescapable. There’s a feeling of exhilaration in this kind of power, and it can be valuable to let yourself feel your fury in its full ecstatic strength. Still, this week, leave space for other people to surprise you. Leave space for them to change their minds, to come back in from the cold again.

 With a mind as sharp as yours, it can be easier to tell stories about how the world might change than to see it for what it already is. It can be easier to deal with your own notions of the world, rather than to sit back and wait while the world shows you its true shape. But the color of the sky changes every day. This week, try not to jump to conclusions. Try to simply look.

  Go outside this week just to wonder at the world. It’s amazing, after everything we’ve been through this year, that the trees are still making wood, and the sky is still making snow and rain, and the lakes still hold water and life. There is no shame in admitting that you don’t know what comes next. If you can remember that things haven’t always been this way, then you can remember that the world is still in motion, and change is possible, even now.

 There are matters of urgency in the world, and there are tasks that must be done right now. And still, try to remember this week, that you don’t have to move so quickly all the time. Some work can’t be rushed. You’re growing into yourself even now, and you can’t know yet what the outcome of all this growth is going to be. There’s so little you can really give yourself, but you can grant yourself some time.

  Among all the loss this year has brought, and all the pain you’re still moving through, it’s easy to lose sight of the powers you still possess. You’ve learned so much about yourself, and you’ve learned so much about the difficulty of the world. This week, remember that no matter what else there is, you still have the power of refusal. When anything else feels impossible, you can still reject cruelty. Buried in your refusal will be some kind of quiet affirmation, too, a belief that there can be something better than this.

Mercury is still retrograde this week, and the moon will pass through Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius as it wanes. Maybe you’ll feel a stillness inside, in the middle of all the world’s motion, or a quiet sorrow in the middle of your city’s busy noise. Maybe you’ll feel a clear warm light in the middle of the worst kind of darkness.

 You’ve been putting in the work, these past few weeks, and you might begin to see doors opening. You might begin to see new paths appear that weren’t there before. You’re becoming braver every day, and still it’s okay not to feel certainty all the time. Success isn’t a place where you’ll never feel doubt again.

 It’s overwhelming, sometimes, thinking of everything that doesn’t last forever. It’s overwhelming, sometimes, to think of the thin crust of ice on the puddles and lakes, hardening and melting, again and again. Change keeps happening around you, and it happens inside you, too. It isn’t too late to carry yourself with the fearlessness you wish for. It isn’t too late to let the fire inside you burn.

 Your body is wise, and it carries knowledge and memories broader and deeper than what you have space for in your thoughts. This week, just remember that you don’t always have to heed everything it tells you. You don’t always need to listen to the fear of inadequacy that prickles across your skin. Your body is wise, but sometimes it tries to protect you from your own courage.

 It’s valuable, sometimes, to listen to voices other than your own. There’s magic in letting the world speak to you, and letting other people’s ideas fill the world with colors you haven’t seen before. Still, this week, you can trust your own mind, too. You can’t know everything in the whole world but you do know your own life deeply. Trust the compass you already have.

 If the black of the night feels endless, if the chill in the sky feels like it could slice you in half, it’s okay to seek the warmth you need. It’s okay to cover yourself in a blanket and turn on a song that sounds like safety. It’s okay to seek the people whose love for you is gentle and good. You don’t have to write a whole defense of your longing, or your body’s need for softness.

 You don’t have to follow every change in the wind, or every curve in the path, or every variation in the noise of the street. When the world bends and shakes, you don’t always have to let yourself be bent and shaken. You already know to survive and adapt. This week, just remind yourself that you can shift and morph on your own terms.

 It isn’t easy, working with incomplete information. It isn’t easy to live, not knowing everyone who’s walked on this ground before you, or the words to all the songs that play in all the houses on your street. You can’t fill every single gap, and you don’t need to. This week, the trick is to keep feeling your body in once piece, even as you walk through the empty spaces.

 There’s space this week to keep working, quietly. Maybe the streets hum with motion all around you, maybe thousands of voices buzz in the air, and still it doesn’t matter. You can keep moving forward toward a brightness only you can see. You’re light on your feet, and you’re moving swiftly, quietly. Inside you, there’s a place as quiet as snow, as hushed as the pink dawn.

 Just because you can feel the sun touching your skin, don’t assume everyone else can feel it, too. There’s some vulnerability, maybe, but no shame in striving to make yourself clear to the world. There’s no shame in doing the work of living among other people. You’re weirder and wiser than you think, and it’s a gift to invite other people into your world.

  This week, you might notice your emotions going unrecognized by other people. The fury that feels hot as an oven to you might slide through the room unnoticed. Your desire, deep as a lake inside you, might look like nothing at all to other people. It’s so easy to feel this as a judgment, like these moments reflect some sorry truth about yourself, but they don’t. It isn’t your job to be easily known.

 There are so many ways the world keeps trying to mold you, so many powers trying to squeeze you until you’re small, but you don’t have to be what other people want you to be. You don’t have to make yourself impressive or imposing, and you don’t have to make yourself sweet or simple, either. This doesn’t mean you don’t have to be kind, just that the path you’re on is a strange and a brave one. It’s okay if you’re still learning the rules here.

  Even you can sometimes be seized by a desire to run far away from this place. Even you can sometimes be seized by a desire to become invisible, allowed to live your life unknown and unseen and unbound to anyone but yourself. This week, you don’t have to leave your town, or leave all your love behind you. But if you find yourself wanting quiet, it’s okay to seek it out. It’s okay to spend time alone if you need it.
Mercury retrograde started yesterday, which means you might feel a shift in your vision, or a shift in the terrain you move through. On Saturday, Mars moves into Scorpio. What depths, then, will you feel drawn to?

 This week, something in your life that’s been static might leap into motion again. The emotions you thought were settled might expand. The sorrow or rage you thought you knew best can shift and become unpredictable. You already know how to live in the life you have now, but this week, you might feel something inside you cracking open.

 This week, as you push toward freedom, try not to hold so tightly to your own comfort. As you work to build a world made of safety and love, what would you be willing to let go of? You don’t have to lose everything that makes life feel sweet or soft, but new worlds can open up when you imagine what you’d be willing to live without. What isn’t serving you anymore?

 The choices in front of you might feel particularly urgent this week, as though the rest of your life hangs on what happens in this moment. It can be easy to feel a heaviness in the air, a pressure in your guts, like time is growing short or slipping away. Try to remember that this feeling won’t last forever.

 Sometimes there’s such joy in just letting other people live, strangely and wildly and well, all around you. Sometimes there’s such comfort in looking up to the wide sky and the faraway moon. How wonderful it is that so much of the world can remain mysterious to you. How wonderful it is that after all this, you can live your own life without remorse or apology.

 This week, when you’re faced with the world’s punishing greed, you can fight it, or you can escape it, or you can explode it. There’s a love glowing inside you, bright enough to light a path forward, hot enough to get you through the winter.  If your courage grows larger than your fear, how will this change the way you move?

 In a moment of great bravery, there’s a sweet wild rush that overtakes you; it’s a feeling that sparkles like the ocean, that glows as gold as honey. Remember that you’re allowed to rest, after you’ve given so much of yourself. You’re allowed to pause and watch as the world quietly rearranges itself in response to your gift.

 This is a week for feeling your own softness, for honoring the tenderness that hides deep inside you. Sometimes it can feel like a warm blanket, and sometimes it can feel like a burden that holds you down. Some emotion feels like wool, and some feels like water, and some feels like cold metal on your skin. How will you live with your unbearable gentleness?

 When the world goes dark around you, you don’t have to let it make you defensive; you don’t have to let it wring out all your goodness. There can be an impulse to wind your way through shadows, as though staying unseen will protect you from harm. This week, remember all the love in your world. Remember you don’t have to live behind walls to be safe.

 This week, you don’t have to work so hard at understanding and diagramming your own magic. It doesn’t really matter why your heart beats the way it does. There’s a pleasure in analysis, but there’s a different kind of pleasure in finally letting your truest self move. Let your body move in the way that feels best, in the way this landscape calls forth in you.

  You might feel some kind of pressure this week to make yourself likable, to make yourself simple, to twist yourself into another shape. Remember that you don’t have to do it, because you don’t have to be loved by everyone. Practice holding your ground. It’s a skill you’ve learned before, and one you’ll keep learning, again and again.

 Even now, your goodness can grow bigger than it’s ever been before. You’ve been wrong before, and sometimes being wrong about yourself isn’t so bad. You’ve caused harm in the world before, but that doesn’t mean you’re stuck in this place. Whatever you think you are, and whatever you’ve been told — it isn’t the whole truth.

  All these long and grinding days might be wearing on you. Your strength might feel depleted, your energy worn down to a small, shabby thing. This is a week for finding strength again, for finding a courage that makes your body warm. This is a week for rekindling your belief in your own ability to survive this place.
On Friday, Venus moves into Sagittarius, bringing an unexpected sweetness. Then on Sunday, there’s a full moon in Gemini and Mercury goes retrograde. Maybe the full moon will bring some new lightness to your thoughts. Maybe Mercury will allow you to change your mind.

 You might get so much attention for the bright and the sparkling parts of yourself — for the ways you’re funny or brilliant or sharp. Just remind yourself that you don’t have to keep proving your worth in the world, over and over again. You’re allowed to wander alone through your afternoons, not sharing your quiet wisdom with anyone but yourself.

 Your days might feel too hazy, too messy for your comfort — like you’ve been given all the tools but no instructions; like you’ve been given all the clues, but they still won’t fit together. Even dreams can feel limiting without a way to write them down, without someone to tell them to. This week, when the answers don’t come and you don’t know how to find them, it’s okay to ask for help.

 This is a week for giving your past selves credit for doing what they could. You’re younger than the mountains, and you’re smaller than the sea. You can forgive yourself for the moments your courage hasn’t been enough. You can forgive yourself for not already knowing more than you know.

 When the grand reds and golds of fall are gone, the world doesn’t actually lose all its color, but you might have to pay closer attention. There are delicate pinks in the morning. There are careful green leaves. Maybe you have a vision for the future that you carry somewhere deep inside, but this week, try not to rush or worry. The timeline is never exactly what you think,

 There are people in the world who would have you clean up all your expansive messiness. There are people who’d make you into an entirely different person, if they could. You have to live in this world with other people, and you do have to do your laundry sometimes, but there are other qualities worth valuing, even if they don’t make your life easier.

 Your attention doesn’t have to stay focused all the time. Your feelings don’t all have to point in the same direction, and they don’t have to be legible on your body or your face. Birds migrate south, and they migrate north again, and sometimes they just sit in the trees singing. You’re traveling on some kind of path, but this doesn’t mean your feelings have to march in a straight line forever.

 You can experience the world with your thoughts, and you can experience the world with your love, and you can experience the world with your body, too. If you start to feel lost this week, try to move into a different mode of feeling. When your moods spin wild, you can remember the abundance and clarity of your thoughts. When your thoughts stop offering what you need, you can touch the rough earth with your bare hand.

 Even after all this time, it’s possible to untangle some of your bad feelings about yourself, and let them go. Even now, it’s possible to hate yourself less and less. You aren’t required to have always been nothing but good. You’re doing the hard work of living every day, and this can be enough.

 When there’s a feeling that scratches inside you, what will you do with it? When you’re haunted by the gaps in your own stories, will you keep telling them anyway? This week, you can be guided by the raw blazing power of your honesty. You can speak the truth to others. You can voice your disagreements or your doubts or your wildest unknowable visions.

  It’s so easy to imagine that the only way to do good in the world is to sacrifice, that the only way to live honorably is to lift heavier and heavier burdens until you can hardly move. Sometimes this does make you stronger, but this week, remember it’s not the only way. Somewhere, there’s a warm quiet room where you can rest.

 This week, try not to worry so much about making good, productive use of your time. Time isn’t limitless — it’s precious as water, as vital as light — but you don’t have to treat it as an object that must prove its value. Every moment that passes has something to show you, even if you don’t see the purpose right away.

  What kind of warmth does your body need? What kind of softness does your soft heart long for? There’s sometimes an impulse to be cold and clean and precise in all your movements, but this week, you don’t have to be. You can give yourself permission not to make sense. You can give yourself permission to feel curiosity without a purpose, without end. It’s okay if you just need small moments of sweetness with the people you love.
Tomorrow is the start of Sagittarius season. There’s color in the sky, and there’s movement on the ground. Not everything is getting better, but some things might be.

 When the evenings come early and the sun sets fast, it gets hard to remember that kindness still exists in the world. When you’re trapped in your own hours, it’s easy to forget there are still other people in the world. Try to operate under the assumption that you aren’t alone, and if the world feels too dark, your own acts of generosity can bring you back to life.

 This week, you might find yourself regaining your sense of forward motion. It’s good, after time spent down in your deepest feelings, after sitting with the full intensity of your desires, to come up for air again. You can survey the wild expanses all around you, and you can remember the sweetness of movement.

 This week, all the world’s motion might feel more messy than is comfortable. Your own ideas might feel more muddled or tangled than you can bear. And even when it feels impassable, even when it feels unending, this confusion isn’t a permanent state. You’re so sensitive to all the moods and pressures around you, and when you need it, you’ll find clarity again.

 It’s taken so much time and so much courage to make it to the place you live today. You’ve journeyed through wilderness, through caves and forests and swamps, just to make it to this place where you can rest, where you can feel yourself soften. This life is yours, and it didn’t spring up on its own, and it’s precious. It’s okay to defend the home you’ve built for yourself.

 Your mind is sharp and clear, and you think about the world with boldness and rigor and love. And even for someone as clear-headed as you are, the things you know can turn out to be wrong sometimes, and this is a kind of freedom, too. If you feel your foundations being shaken, this week, it doesn’t have to pose a threat to you. Being surprised isn’t a sign of weakness.

 There’s a doorway to a strange place with an unmapped terrain, and you don’t have to step through it unless you want to. You don’t have to change the whole world with your love, just because you’ve been asked to. Generosity alters so much, but all your softness, all your magic, all your blue and golden strangeness, are yours to give and yours to keep.

 Your thoughts don’t need to stay orderly this week, and your feelings don’t either. Sometimes an emotion expands past your ability to understand it, and sometimes an idea grows so large you can’t see the whole thing at once. If you’ve been feeling haunted, this week, you can try letting the ghost speak.

 The nights keep growing shorter, but there’s still enough light to see by. If optimism feels like too much to ask for right now, then remind yourself that there is still a future, and we don’t yet know what it looks like. The world isn’t ending after today, and if you can’t make it perfect, how can you make it bigger? How can you make it stranger?

 Even for a person as courageous as you are, it can still be terrifying to speak a desire out loud, even into the ear of just one other person. Even for someone who’s traveled through the dark woods, even for someone who’s moved through fire, it can still feel like an unbearable vulnerability to want anything at all. You know what you’re seeking, and you can speak its name. You’re on the path forward, and nothing, no delay or denial, can shake you out of yourself.

  Sometimes it’s clear when you’re moving in the right direction — there’s an electric energy in your skin, and your voice feels clear and sharp, and your days feel smooth and liquid. Sometimes, the direction of your life is less clear. Maybe you can’t tell how far you’ve moved, or whether you’re moving at all. This week, try not to worry so much about reaching some faraway point on the horizon. Right here, there’s so much left to see.

 If you feel anxiety this week, or if you feel joy, try to locate those feelings somewhere in your own body. Some fears you feel in your shoulders, and others you feel behind your eyes. If you don’t know what to do next, if you don’t know how to bear everything you feel, you body might guide you. Sometimes the answer is movement, and sometimes the answer is sleep, and sometimes the answer is another person’s touch.

  It’s easy to believe you’re working too slowly, as though your drive is a quiet and feeble thing. This week, remember the feeling inside you that glows and sparks. Remember the love that keeps pushing you to leave your own house and embrace the messy world. Your ambition doesn’t have to be greedy to hold its own wild energy. It doesn’t have to be noisy to change the whole world around you.
The moon will wane all week until Saturday’s new moon in Scorpio. As the moon’s light grows thinner overhead, you might feel yourself turning inward. What power can you feel inside yourself? If the moon won’t light your way through the dark, how will you guide your own way forward from here?

 You might think you know where you’ve been called to, and you might think you know how you’ll get there, and maybe you’re right — but it’s important that you leave yourself space to be wrong, just in case. Give yourself room to be dazzled or distracted or changed. This week, your desires can teach you things your intellect can’t, so pay attention to your hunger.

 You’re allowed to push back against the pressure to sand your emotions down, to twist all your hope and your rage into some small, neat shape. Your job is only to show up and try. The struggle doesn’t have to invigorate you. It doesn’t have to taste like sugar. You can feel good or you can feel bad and the work will go on.

 Even for you, it can sometimes be hard not to fear your own contradictions. It can be hard to embrace your tangles, your inconsistencies, your rich and resounding music. You’ll be told to pick a single path, but you don’t have to. The world gives you feelings at once so fiery and so tender, so unruly and so soft, and you can hold them all at once. You’re wild and you’re weird and you’re tender, too.

 You might find yourself feeling frantic this week, reaching for ways to control time, to slow it down. But it will keep going forward, and while you can’t change the way it moves, it is possible to feel less afraid. Think about how many lives have come before yours. Think about all the trees that have grown tall, all the times the seas have risen and fallen with the tides.

 This week, you can rediscover kinds of motion you thought had been lost to you. You can reclaim modes of feeling that you thought had faded away. You can remember how you used to know the world, how dreams used to sharpen your nights, how desire used to feel on your skin. It’s all still available to you, if you need it again.

 Your inner world is so lush and weird and dense with feeling, but it’s good, sometimes, to remember the outer world too. Sometimes there’s some relief in forgetting the world outside, but this might be a time for locating yourself in space again. This week, remember to speak your thoughts out loud to see how they sound in the air, out in the world with other people.

 Even the worst feeling there is, can sometimes turn itself inside out. Even the bleakest day can reverse itself, can crack open, can relent. It feels sudden when it happens, almost like magic, but don’t forget how hard you’ve been working, all along. You’ve been moving through the world and letting the world move through you. This is your reward.

 Sometimes it feels like nobody can really see the tenderness in your wild fervent love for the world. This can make it hard to live in a world as harsh as this one. It’s easy to feel like you have to keep strengthening your defenses, but it’s an exhausting way to live, and when it feels like too much, remind yourself that your softness isn’t a weakness to be fixed. It’s a strange treasure.

 Sometimes, it can feel like your energy is all wrong. Sometimes, even the bright expansive powers of your mind can feel stubbornly small and deficient. On a bad day, it’s easy to imagine that the problem is something deep inside you, but this week, let yourself know that’s wrong. When your energy won’t flow in the direction you think it should, pay attention to where it is going.

  Your sharp mind can surprise you, this week, with the links and connections it makes. Your sharp heart can surprise you with all the bonds you feel with the world. Here you’ve been feeling so alone, the only person on this whole earth like you, the only person who feels so strongly, so weirdly, so well. Watch, this week, as connections and closeness bloom all around.

 If you trusted your energy this week, if you really let all your curiosity guide you, where could you end up? You’ve traveled so far already, but that doesn’t mean you have to stop here. If you need a rest you can take a rest, of course — you don’t need to make things harder for yourself, don’t need to carry rocks in your bag just to feel your own muscles strain. Still, this is a week for not letting up until you’re ready.

  This week, watch for the ways power moves in your life. Watch how it moves above you and below you. Listen to the stories it tells. There’s power that sings sweetly and power that hums like a machine, and there’s power that lives inside you, too. It doesn’t all have to be bad, and it doesn’t all have to be good. How will you use the tools you’ve been given? Hope doesn’t only thrive in the places you think it will.
Tomorrow, Venus moves into Scorpio, and you might feel your love change shape. You might feel pulled to intimacy, or drawn to strange emotional depths. How will you move through emotional currents that are suddenly so fast and strong?

 This week, you may be called to look behind you. This doesn’t mean you have to drive yourself wild with nostalgia or regret or desire for a beautiful past. Every moment of the present feels fraught and tense and loaded, but sometimes the answers you need can only be found if you turn around. The past has gifts to share, visions or lessons or some kind of sweet, surprising relief.

 Something very soft inside you, something small and gold, might feel too exposed this week. Or else the weather might just feel too powerful, like the wind can blow through the walls, like the moonlight can shine straight through your closed eyes. There’s so much happening this week, so much motion out in the world, and it’s okay if you need to retreat for a moment.

 You know already that you hold surprises inside you. You already know that there are parts of you that often go unseen — your rage or your passion or your courage, strange and hard as a diamond. And there’s pain, sometimes, in not being known fully. There’s heartbreak in having the lush green wilderness inside you go unrecognized. But still, you can love the hidden parts of yourself.

 Your anger keeps changing, so fluid and fast it’s hard even for you to keep up with it. Your love keeps switching direction, moving along fast and bending paths, strange and crooked and sweet. Remember, you don’t have to be respectable or decipherable or correct. Perfect harmony is too much to ask of yourself, when you hold all this weirdness and magic and light.

 This is a week for using different tools from the ones you usually reach for; for singing different songs from the ones that usually run through your head; for using different words from the ones that spring to your lips. It’s not that you need to abandon the ways you already know, just that there’s space to see the world new. If you can’t understand the world through the words it speaks, you can listen to its music.

 When you feel the biggest, wildest, joy, sometimes this is when you start to wonder — what if your feelings are too sharp? What if they’re too free? There’s a sense that too much emotion could expose you and leave your whirling thoughts open to anyone — or else that it could swing out of control and harm the person next to you. But this week, try not to be afraid of your own intensity.

 This is a week to think about endings, and about edges, and about all the memories your body carries. This is a week to think about motion and distances, to think about how far you still are from the end. It’s scary to think about time — like there’s always too much, or always too little, or it’s all floating steadily away from you. But there’s a freedom here, too. Time keeps moving, and so can you.

 Just because your desire is dense and wild and potent, that doesn’t mean you know where it leads. Sometimes, the challenge is to find something good enough that it’s worth wanting. Sometimes, when your heart beats so fast and so pure, it can feel like nothing on this whole earth could ever be sweet enough to deserve your wild feelings. Keep trying anyway.

 You might start to doubt the way you live your own life, this week. You might start to doubt the rhythm of your steps on the pavement, or the sound of your voice in your throat, or the secret vision of your dreams, all silver and blue. It’s a good and brave thing to ask difficult questions of yourself — just don’t demand your feelings start speaking the language of logic.

  If you’ve felt like you’re floating, if you’ve felt like your thoughts keep flying off in every direction, this week can focus you again. The conversations you have, or the songs that surround you, or the light of the waning moon, can all bring you back to your body. They can anchor you to the world you live in. It’s not a bad thing, not a trap, not a swamp you might get stuck in. The colors are rich here, and your voice is clear.

 You know how to get what you want, already — how to focus, how to try, how to work and dream until a good thing becomes real. The stranger, more difficult problem is knowing what you want at all. There are so many things worth wanting, so many projects and futures and different loves. But don’t forget: You can always just leave your house and choose a direction and start moving.

  Your mind is quick and sharp and strange, and it can map the places you see. It can cut through all the noise, to see the truth clearly. But even this sparkling understanding won’t stop all the feelings racing through your body, won’t smooth out all your rage or calm your desire. You don’t have to think your body into clarity. Your feelings are still allowed to exist outside sense, outside meaning.
The moon waxes all week, building to a full moon in Taurus on Saturday. This is a moon for feeling the earth beneath you, and all the ways it allows you to be still, and all the ways it allows you to move. What is it that’s been growing, these weeks, inside you? What is this feeling that’s finally ready to take shape?

 Sometimes when the leaves turn colors or the wind carries some strange new feeling from the north, it’s easy to doubt the way you live. It’s easy to imagine your whole self is wrong for this season, too loud or too much or too free. It isn’t true, of course, and this is a week for not letting up, for not holding back. This is a week for holding fast to your own vision.

 Even your kindness can feel like a trap, sometimes — as if the more your body fills with feeling, and the more you give away, the more there is for the world to take from you. It can feel better, sometimes, to renounce your generosity altogether, but try not to do that this week. You don’t have to share everything you have, just whatever time or affection or forgiveness you can.

 Whenever you think you’ve finally understood the entire world, there’s always something that evades capture, something that slips through your fingers. That doesn’t mean you’ve failed, or been proven wrong. Remind yourself this week that your job isn’t to be impervious to surprise. Even now, sometimes, there’s softness in the places you expected cruelty, and light in the places you expected to find nothing at all.

 It’s not always easy to know where to push back, when there are so many forces working to take away your ownership of your own story. This week, it can help to remind yourself that your body is your own. You can cut your hair short, you can grow your hair long, you can get a tattoo. You can square your shoulders and claim your space. There’s more to do than just this, but this quiet, physical stubbornness is one place to start.

 You can bear your anger so well, you can hold it so closely, that it doesn’t get noticed at all. Other people look at you, sometimes, and they can understand your sorrow or your love, but your anger sings at a pitch too deep to hear. Just remember this week that if you’re misunderstood, if you aren’t heard clearly, it’s okay to say just what you mean. It’s okay to keep pushing to make yourself heard.

 If you feel too down, this week, or if you feel tangled up inside your head, try to pause, try to breathe, try to tell another story. The world hasn’t always been this way, and things won’t always be the way they are now. The world you can touch today is real, but stories are real, too. They can help you believe in the future again.

 When the world seems so cruel and so cramped, it can feel selfish to have your own desires, and more selfish still to honor them. This week, let yourself have your own feelings. Let your blood move through your body. Let the world stun you with all the colors it still holds, and all the possibilities for justice and love. There’s still space in the world for desire that’s generous and brave and wild.

 Being a human in this place might keep getting scarier and wilder, and you might feel the conditions of life changing all around you. It’s hard to see where this path is leading, or what the terrain looks like ahead, but you don’t have to be afraid. You know how to travel without a map. In times of uncertainty and times of flux, remember that these are the times your powers were made for.

 As the days grow shorter and the nights grow weird, you might feel fear or sorrow, but you might also feel some kind of wonder, too. Try to remember the way the world felt when you were small, when the whole world was a mystery, expansive and bright. The possibilities might have come to feel smaller and fewer and sadder since then, but this week you might find some old magic. It isn’t a return to innocence, but a return to a hopeful and welcoming wilderness.

  Unexpected feelings might overwhelm you this week, crashing inside you like the tides. Emotion might surprise you, or make life inconvenient. There’s so much worth wanting in this world, that  the small ordinariness of a daily life can feel unbearable. Just try to remember you don’t have to give your whole self to emotion, just like you don’t have to lose your self in work. You can have the love you need without losing yourself.

 It’s so hard to live, every day, knowing the world should be better but it isn’t. It’s hard to keep going, treating the world with kindness, doing your laundry and cleaning up after dinner, knowing there’s magic somewhere you can’t see. It’s hard to keep doing your best, when unkindness and pain keep thriving. If anger is the tool you need to fight your way out of this space, then use all the anger you have. Just don’t relinquish your joy, because you’ll need that, too.

  Making noise isn’t the only good way to say anything, and moving forward isn’t the only good way to be alive. If you have your bright kindness to guide you, if you have your values and dreams, then you don’t have to listen to anyone else’s idea of what shape your life should take. This week, you can move into the weirder spaces, the overgrown spaces, the sweet, unproductive spaces. When your heart moves in strange directions this week, it’s okay to follow.
On Tuesday, Mercury moves into Scorpio. If this brings a new resonance in your voice, what questions will you ask? Then, on Thursday, a new moon in Libra. When you look at the future that stretches out from here, what kind of peace are you able to see?

 Even now, your feet are sure and steady as you move through the side streets and alleys of your city, the landscapes of your life. Still, this week, try to allow for the possibility that you’ll sometimes be wrong. Your job is to speak the truth as you know it, not to be right all the time. Allow for the possibility that the world can still surprise you.

 You know the colors of your moods and the cycles of your dreams and the rhythm of your own steady heartbeat. And still, all this wisdom doesn’t mean it’s easy to ask for what you need. It’s still so hard to speak your most fragile desires out loud into the coolness of the air. Ask yourself this week: Where are the spaces that let you need what you need, without defense or apology?

 Sometimes it’s too much to deal with all the motion and noise in your head; too much to follow every train of thought to its end. When you feel trapped inside yourself, you don’t have to shatter your whole life to find an escape. This week, it might be enough just to clean the kitchen. It might be enough to organize the bookshelves, to straighten the pictures on the wall.

 Sometimes when the world bends and turns, you can become the one point of stillness and stability. You plant your feet and watch the world flow around you, and this is a good way to live, but it’s not the only way. Remind yourself, in case you’ve forgotten, that a moving world makes room for you to move too.

 Every day you wake up, and the world asks you to make choices, and all these choices can start to wear at you. They can start to feel like a puzzle, like a maze, every decision charged with difficult meaning. This week, you can take a breath and grant yourself the space to make a mistake. You can give yourself permission to disrupt your own perfect balance.

 Sometimes the world will ask you to be afraid of your own feelings, or it will try to trick you into believing your feelings are too powerful, too heavy, too bright to fit inside one human body — as though having an emotion at all is something unbearably selfish, unforgivably loud. Try to remember that it’s okay to feel, and it’s okay to speak your feelings out loud, too. You don’t have to dull the gold of your thoughts or the sharp clarity of your words.

 All these doors keep opening in front of you, one after the other, leading you through rooms and hallways, then out into the forest, then back inside to the warm kitchen again. All these days stretch on and on, and it can be hard to remember the point of them all. Life feels so long, sometimes. But remember: There’s no final goal to reach, no ultimate state that will mean you’ve finally made it.

 You can watch the world prepare for shorter days, and you can watch the trees and the people prepare for winter, and you can forgive yourself for not being good in all the ways it’s possible for a person to be good. Perfection has always served only to get in the way of life. There’s already something great in you, and when the light catches it just right, it looks like the same kind of magic you’ve always needed.

 Maybe the earth is spinning back to a place that makes sense to you, and maybe it’s the golden autumn light, but something might settle into place inside yourself this week. You might rediscover a courage you thought you’d lost. You might remember what it feels like not to be scared of yourself, or your own wisdom, or your desires, strong and bright enough to power a whole city.

  When you’re alone this week, pay attention to the rhythms of your own body. There’s noise in the world, and there’s noise in your head, but beneath all that, there’s a calm, quiet place inside you. You don’t have to explain this to anyone who wants to know you. When the moon comes out at night, you can look up at it and remember what it means just to be a person, strange and free.

 This week, you can communicate your curiosity and desire with blazing heat, and you can speak your doubts with certainty. You can use all your best powers this week — just don’t underestimate their force. Don’t forget who you care about, and who you have the power to injure, and who’s on the other end of your bright gaze. You can ask all your questions and you don’t have to hold back, but you do have to listen, carefully, to the answers.

  It takes so much energy to forge a self, to create a life, to tell a story that will make room for you to keep living in this world. It’s exhausting, all the work it takes just to be a person, forming and molding and making. It’s exhausting, all the telling and retelling you have to do, speaking yourself into existence over and over again. Other people can make it look easy sometimes, but it’s not. You’re powerful and brave already, and it isn’t defeat to admit when you’re tired, too.
Tomorrow, Jupiter moves into Scorpio, where it will stay for the next year. On Saturday, Venus moves into Libra. Amid all this movement, will you feel your desires grow and expand, or will you feel them balance?

 Even when you already know where you’re going, it can be good to wander. Even when you already know the words that are coming next, it can be good to listen and wait. This week, pay attention to your curiosity, even when it’s hazy, or so quiet you can hardly hear it. The answers you already know aren’t wrong, but they might not be the only answers.

 Looking out from this point where you stand, the fields look so vast, and the mountains so far. It’s hard to even imagine reaching the place you dream of going, but you’re lucky. You don’t have to imagine it. You just have to keep moving until you find yourself, suddenly, in the place you were seeking all along.

 When all you want is love, everything can look like love — or the lack of it. When all you want is safety, it can be hard to see anything but danger. You don’t have to ignore your desires, or to doubt the sharp instincts you carry in your skin. Just try to remember that there’s always more. The world still holds gifts that you’re not yet looking for.

 This week, think about what you’ll say no to. Think about the demands and the burdens you might be ready to shed. Letting go is its own hard work. It can feel like a separation, it can feel like a loss, but you’re growing into yourself here, too. Each time you throw off some weight, each time you step out from under some burden you never chose, a space opens up inside you.

 This might be one of those weeks when it feels like the world is set on wringing you out. Remember that you still have the power to push back against this. You can keep loving the shape of your own self. You can keep loving what makes you difficult. You have a mind full of color and light, and you have things to do. There is no magic that isn’t strange; you don’t have to expect yours to be soft or easy, either.

 This week, there might be so many demands on your time, and on the gift of your careful attention — so many scrapes begging to be mended, gaps begging to be filled, stories begging to be heard. As much as you can, try not to lose yourself in these demands. You don’t have to do everything that’s asked of you. Your true obligations are fewer than you might imagine, but they’re broader, grander, more important. It’s already hard enough to be brave; let yourself focus your intensity where you choose.

 This week, your dreams might shine so bright you feel like you have to hide them. Your energy might sparkle so golden in the sunlight it feels almost unfair — how were you given a heart so full in a world as bad as this one? How were you offered such love in a world so set on scarcity and denial? Hiding your joy or your brightness or your quick sharp mind won’t help. Remember, you’re allowed to shine, you’re allowed to let your true face show, you’re allowed to keep ascending.

 Some people and some places will pull at you with a magnetic force, and you don’t need to deny those people and those places. But remind yourself, this week, that you’re allowed to choose where your warmth and intimacy comes from. Not every type of love can be the love you really need, and not every softness has to comfort you equally. Not every light has to mark your path home again, but you can choose the light that does.

 The world is full of strangeness and struggle, and every night stretches out a bit longer than the last. Sometimes, it’s okay to feel deep in your body how difficult it all is. You don’t have to spin every injustice into a narrative that makes sense. You don’t have to immediately see your way out of every dark hollow place, out of every painful corner of your own head. You can let yourself feel bad, sometimes, and then you can get up and keep moving. You won’t live in these feelings forever.

  Sometimes, your joy can feel too fragile to share, too tender to subject to the sun’s yellow light. It’s okay, this week, to keep the best parts of you hidden. It’s okay to let them grow and change in a dreamy, quiet peace. There is work that needs to be done in the world, and there are people who still need your kindness, but you don’t have to share your whole self all the time.

 It isn’t easy to find a space you can live in, and it isn’t easy to keep building a self that can be bright and kind and brave. This week, remind yourself this is difficult work. It’s okay if you’re tired. Your dreams and wild and bright. You’re trying to move toward a future so good it’s never been seen before, never even been imagined.

  You don’t have to cover new ground every day of your whole long life. You don’t have to move in a straight line, one foot always in front of the other, the stars overhead and the place you started somewhere far behind you. It’s valuable to rest, and it’s valuable to move sideways. Some feelings stay invisible, deepening and developing quietly inside you. Your stillness holds multitudes, too.

Thursday brings a full moon in the fire sign of Aries, and you might be surprised by the gifts this brings. Maybe they can can wake you up, rouse you from some heavy, dull fatigue. Maybe these gifts, plus this week’s bright moonlight, can activate your wildest instincts and your best energy.

 How will you make your days on earth feel bearable? The world is violent and strange, but it’s still possible to build a space where you can live in a way that feels right. You don’t have to build a fortress, or find another planet. It’s enough, for now, to make space to grieve and space to love, space where you can put yourself together again before heading back out into the world.

 As you move through the world with your eyes open, you might find treasures on the ground, accidental connections in the street. The world is held together by history and by power and by feeling, too, and there’s so much here that might surprise you. You’re solid and independent and wise, but even you can’t know everything already. Even you can be changed and surprised by the world.

 It isn’t always the most enjoyable thing to pay attention to what your body needs. Bodies can be demanding, difficult, with needs that surprise you and slow you down. If your body speaks to you out of hunger this week, try your best to pay attention. If your skin needs to be touched or your hand needs to be held, listen. Your mind is wild and boundless, but this is a week for eating, for resting, for doing what you need to grow stronger again.

 This week, your thoughts will bend and flow, carrying you to strange lands and guiding you home again. Your memories will swell and condense and fill your days with wonder. But try not to worry how you appear to the outside world, or how your quiet face will look to a stranger across the room. You already hold your own inner balance, your own equilibrium, and it’s all you need right now.

 Maybe your days lately have sparked with drama or blazed with desire. Maybe they’ve just been so busy you’ve had no choice but to remain in motion, pushing forward toward some bright goal. This week, something might shift. Watch the trees’ long shadows in the afternoon, and listen to the birds overhead. Your days might not slow down, but soon they might not feel so difficult.

 This week, you might feel pulled by a need for something new, a desire for something fresh, a taste for cool clear air in the early morning. Don’t imagine you need to tear your whole life down and build it again. There are other ways to bring a new energy into your days. You can start just by opening your windows.

 Sometimes, you’re an observer of the world around you, the streets and forests crowded with movement and light. You can notice changes, and you can keep your balance while you watch the earth move. This week, as you watch the movement all around you, remember that you, too, have the magic it takes to build power. You, too, have the ability to make a choice and move forward.

 It can be lonely to see the future but still be stuck in your body, in this moment in time. Still, you can find hope in the sunlight that hits the tops of the trees. You can find hope in the music floating and bumping from the windows on your street. You aren’t the only one moving, the only one working toward something better.

 The energy in your heart might start to feel frantic, this week, buzzing and intense. And it’s easy, with an energy like this, to imagine it’s your duty to use it all, to light the whole night sky. But you don’t have to be the stars or the sun or a lighthouse, brave and alone at the edge of the sea. You just have to live with your feet on the ground, and keep your own tender fire alive.

  This week, try shaking yourself out of your own routine a little bit. Try disturbing your own daily patterns, the cycles of living you keep repeating like a song. It’s so easy to become used to the patterns your feet make on the ground, to the sounds you hear every day. Thoughts can get stuck on loop, orderly and predictable. Instead, walk along different streets, read a different story, talk to someone you don’t already know.

 Even when days feel cramped, and even when the world looks like a door that keeps closing, remind yourself that space is expanding. Even when your internal tensions and contradictions feel unbearable, even when you feel trapped by the edges of your body, your feelings can keep spreading out. They can keep glowing and moving, and there’s enough room here for you to let them.

  Your ear is so attuned to other people’s sorrow, to their quiet ambitions, to their careful desires. Remember, there are so many different ways to love and try and make mistakes. It’s not always easy, but you can let all this love wash over you without drowning you, without carrying you out to sea. You can still hold the wide, aching world in your heart without losing your own sharp edges.

The sun is now in Libra, and on Friday, Mercury enters Libra, too, and stays there until the middle of October. If you feel a new evenness in your step, a new calm in your voice, this could be why.

 If it’s comfort that you need this week, there’s some kind of comfort here in the world for you. If it’s softness you need, there’s softness, somewhere, waiting. You can trust yourself to know what you need, how much struggle you can bear before you need a rest. You can trust yourself to know when you need to retreat from the busy world, and when it’s time to return again.

 Sometimes it’s easy to get lost, even on the streets of your own city, even in feelings you’ve experienced before. No matter how truly you think you know your own shape and your own memory, it’s still easy, sometimes, to forget. If you start to forget who you are this week, you don’t have to keep digging forever inside yourself. Look outward. How does the world reflect you back to yourself?

 There’s a whole world full of music, and a whole world full of friends and strangers, and a whole world full of color and light. You’re one small person, and your own life isn’t infinite. It’s okay, sometimes, to choose between all the lives you’ve been offered. You know how to choose the maps that can guide you from the ones that were drawn for somebody else.

 Even you, with all your wild glowing courage, have memories too tender to touch, old wounds that you guard like they’re precious, like they’re secrets. This is a week to imagine other ways of living. Sometimes your pain just sits quiet and heavy, like a stone worn smooth by the ocean, but there are other ways to heal, too. Sometimes, even your heaviest pain wants to be heard by ears other than your own.

 It can feel so good to imagine a world where you meet every ordeal with boldness, with bravery as bright as gold. It feels so good, sometimes, to imagine a version of yourself with all your courage amplified, and your quiet strangeness, your fear, your pain made invisible. But you can value your weirdness, too. You can love the imaginative, unproductive parts of yourself that don’t make sense. Everyone has their own way to keep going. Sometimes, from the outside, courage doesn’t look like courage at all.

 Maybe there’s a shift in the outside world, or maybe there’s a shift somewhere in your own body, but either way, suddenly, you can trust your own balance. You can believe the instincts that lead you through each day, and the bright inner compass that guides you through these busy streets. You don’t have to understand your hunger in order to feel it, or understand love before it can mean anything. You don’t have to understand gravity’s force to feel your feet on the ground.

 This might be a time for taking your favorite old story off the shelf and letting it speak to you again. You’ve learned so much, and you’ve seen so many towns, so many mountains, so many people. You’ve grown so wise and good, and still, there’s an urgency inside you, a desire that beats small and strange in your heart. This week, you can return to the stories that have gotten you through this feeling before, the ones that have cast light into your dreams and opened up new futures.

 Sometimes, it can feel like the only way to keep your head above water is to see everything, to know everything, to predict what will happen tomorrow, and the next day, too. But you’re allowed, this week and others, to loosen your tight grip on the future. The tension in your own muscles won’t hold the whole world up. It might help to take a walk and watch the sky changing, or to go to a place you’ve never been before.

 When the badness of the world feels overwhelming, it’s easy to imagine that the shape of your own feelings must match the shape of the world. It’s easy to imagine that somehow, some perfect balance between your inner self and the physical world will be enough to carry you through these days. But your emotions don’t always have to work like a flotation device, rising and falling with the water levels. Your own joy can keep shining, even when it’s hard to see a reason.

  It can be hard to see the goodness in the world, hard to notice any progress, any change, any sign that there’s a reason for walking so far on your own tired feet. On days like these, it can be enough just to live inside your relationships with other people. It can be enough to focus on holding other people up. This week, pay attention to the moments of connection, to the moments of bright common joy. Sometimes there’s nothing more than this, and sometimes there doesn’t need to be.

 The moon grows larger and brighter overhead, and you have the heady power, right now, to reckon with all the desires and ambitions you’ve ignored, the ones you’ve hidden from yourself. You can look at your own face in the mirror, and you can look at the light that shines through the window at night. You already know what you’re made of, and you already know what you want; this week is just for letting the light in, for speaking it out loud.

  Maybe there’s been something itching at you, something bothering your dreams. Maybe your muscles and bones haven’t felt quite aligned, or your hair hasn’t been sitting quite right. This week, finally, you might find your ease again. You might remember how it feels to feel right in this body, to move smoothly through space. You can’t always will yourself back into feeling good, and that’s okay. Sometimes you just have to keep moving until something swings around again, until the world circles back into gentleness.
Wednesday brings a new moon in Virgo. You’ll have the space and the energy, if you need it, to fix what’s been out of place, and to step with a clear heart through this open door. Then, on Friday, is the autumnal equinox, and the sun enters Libra. In this new season, will you seek a new symmetry in stars and the sky?

 There are days when the world seems like it’s only getting noisier, only getting worse, like it’ll never be good again. It’s okay to feel your pessimism this week. But remind yourself, when the midnight feels most deep and blue, when the morning feels most gray, that we still don’t know the future. There’s still enough space for goodness to grow, enough space to keep trying.

 Even when everyone around you seems confusing or messy or wild, there’s a way to live in a world with other people. Even when the people you really love seem very far away, there’s this whole rich communal world. It’s a good week for talking to strangers. It’s a good week just for sharing space. It’s a good week to listen to the conversations around you, to give what small kindness you can.

 As the world changes and darkens and shifts, it’s easy to feel sorrow as your own imagined futures change and darken, too. But some things that look, on their surface, like sacrifices, aren’t sacrifices at all. Some things that look like loss are more like a snake shedding its skin, like a moon that looks dark before starting its cycle again. Some places you once feared might become welcoming, might become wild and green with life, might come to look like home.

 In the middle of whatever wildness this week brings, give yourself the space to live your own life, private and strange and full. You can take a walk going nowhere in particular, letting your thoughts wander and weave. You can spend an afternoon with someone who reminds you how funny you are, how brilliant, how true. This is a week for returning to yourself.

 You don’t have to count on your feelings alone to clear a path through the world. You know how to care for other people in a way that’s bright and steady, but still, some days love can start to feel like it’s no longer enough, not powerful or wild enough to hold you up in this precarious world. It’s okay. Sometimes, you just need to wake up in the morning and keep doing what you can.

 When a season ends and another begins, you can feel the energy in your heart. There’s a sweetness in the new color of the sky, and in the possibilities that open up overhead. So much of the time, you’re working on your own, struggling and trying with no real end in sight. This is a week for stopping, just for a second, to notice how bright your own light has grown.

 This week, imagine how you could live if you no longer had to impress anyone around you. Imagine how you could move if you no longer had to make all your words fly smooth and easy through the air. Think of all your reading, all your thinking, all your fighting and dreaming — you’ve worked so hard, and it’s brought you here. There are still places to go, still ways left to grow, but your weird bright core is strong. You’ve already built the self you needed.

 This is the time for your weirdest ideas, for your dreamiest projects, for all the expansive joy or generosity you’ve been told is out of reach. Nobody knows what’s coming next, not even the people who say they do. If there’s something brewing in your heart, something itching in the tips of your fingers, now’s as good a time as any to get started. You can go for the thing you really want, for the thing you really need.

 This is a week for feeling the ground under your feet, for touching the soil with your own bare hands. Your mind moves with such incredible speed, but it’s helpful sometimes to slow down, to dig into the work of living on earth. There’s a sweetness in living in dreams and abstractions, but there’s a joy in living in your own body, too. This week, if you pay attention to the details, you might find the answers you’ve been seeking.

  If you’re already doing all the work you can, this is a week for getting the rest you need, too. Sometimes, when nothing in the whole world feels true or good, constant action can feel like relief, but remember to give yourself moments of stillness, too. This is a week for taking a walk on a cool evening, for remembering all the ways there are to be alive.

 There are clues and messages in the air and water all around you. You can look up at the stars, and you can look down at the earth, and you can listen to the ideas of the people who love you, the people you trust. Still, this week, you might be the only one who knows just what you need to be doing. You’re the only one in your own body, and the only one who knows how much farther you can go before you need a rest.

  When you measure your own body against the size of the world, it’s easy to feel impossibly small. It’s easy, too, to forget the wild dizzy size of the world inside you. This week, the kindness you’re able to carry might feel impossibly small, and it’s okay. Not everything has to feel like a whole boulder lifted; not everything has to feel like a sacrifice that could save the world. Your own acts of courage don’t always have to feel good, or bad, or any way at all. Sometimes, it’s enough to stand when you could sit down.
This week, the waning moon moves through Gemini, Cancer, and Leo. Next week will bring a new moon in Virgo, and with it new beginnings. As the moon grows smaller above you, what tightly held feelings can you let go of, here on the ground?

 This is a week for listening to the sounds that call out through the sky, and the stories that speak to you through time. What does it mean that you’re here, today? What do your bones feel called to do? There’s too much work to be done, too much space, too much feeling. So how, this week, will you choose to spend your time? How will you choose to listen, and how will you choose to speak?

 Some days the world holds its own symmetry, and some days it leans out of balance, leaving you struggling, racing to keep up. Some days the world holds its own shape, and some days it bursts just into strangeness, something unfamiliar and wild that you’re left to make sense of again. You don’t have to know everything, and you don’t have to pretend it’s all easy. Just try to hold fast to your bright living love.

 The world holds so many things you can’t expect, surprises and changes you can’t yet predict. It’s so easy to use your energy trying to look into the future, but remind yourself that you don’t have to know everything now. Give yourself permission just to live, the best way you can, in this uncertain world. You can watch the wild future bloom.

 Remind yourself, this week, that you don’t need to be a hero. You don’t need to know the world perfectly, and you don’t need to save it right now, on your own. Sometimes, there’s no inspiration, no key to unlock every puzzle. Sometimes goodness accumulates slowly. This isn’t easy work. Every day, you’re building your reserves of honesty, of courage, of love.

 When the rain keeps falling, when the cruelty of the world seems to know no end, you might need to remind yourself that your work still matters, even now. Your work still matters when you aren’t a hero and when you don’t even feel brave. Some challenges look small, so small you could hardly name them. These, too, are the ones that count.

 Remind yourself, this week, that you don’t have to get everything right. Your words don’t always have to be clear, and your face doesn’t always need to be legible. When the world’s as dark and as strange as this, you don’t always have to respond with correctness. Sometimes you can respond to power with untamed power of your own.

 There’s a sweetness in dreaming of a future full of brightness and love, but this is a week for remembering the sweetness of being alive today, right now. You don’t need to look too far ahead for a sign. You don’t need to travel across the whole earth to learn what it means to be a person. This is a week for human-size pleasures and human-size struggles, for joy you can hold in your hand.

 How will you prepare to be kind when the world keeps heating up? How will you prepare to stay generous when the world’s powers keep expanding, growing dense, stretching out like invasive vines? You can only be as strong as your body will bear. So how will you keep waking up to meet this world with a heart full of courage and love?

 This is a week for lighting a spark in your heart again. This is a week for finding what you need to keep moving. Maybe it’s the dream of a wild green future, and maybe it’s the promise of courage, today, in your own city. It’s still okay to go home and weep, and it’s still okay to go out and laugh. Through all this, remember that the end isn’t here yet.

  Sometimes you can experience the world through knowledge, and sometimes you can experience the world with thought, and sometimes you just have to move through the world by being in it. Your thoughts are solid and good, and they can hold you up, but this is a week for motion into the spaces you don’t yet know. This is a week for moving into the caves and hollows, into the spaces where the light gets dim.

 You don’t have to love every song that was ever written, not even the ones that were written for you. You don’t have to accept every offering of love, or every offering of poison either. There’s too much suffering for you to be able to touch and hold and keep it all. This week, it’s okay to step back, to rest, to set your own course again.

  Some change is coming, and some change is already here, and this week you might feel both at once — both the change roaring in the distance, and the change rumbling under your feet. Both the change flashing and lingering in your dreams, and the change calling out from the solid ground at the edge of the sea. This isn’t an easy place to move through, and it’s enough, sometimes, just to keep going.
Tomorrow, Mars enters Virgo and Mercury goes direct. Maybe it’ll feel like a morning fog burning off in the sun, or maybe it’ll feel like you’ve woken up after a good night’s sleep. Then, on Wednesday, a full moon in Pisces makes room for all your dreaminess, too.

 When you feel most stuck, this week, you might be surprised by other people. Their own lives and ideas might just shake your wildness loose. When you feel like there’s no space left to move, it’ll be other people who open up your thoughts again, who expand your idea of what’s possible. This is a lucky place to be, ready to break through the dark into something different.

 Sometimes, your body fills with love and feeling and there’s a sweetness to it, a golden light, a knowledge that the world is a place full of hope and people. Other times, this love feels less like a gift and more like some kind of dread coiled up tight in your stomach. It’s not easy to keep loving the world when the present is dark and the future uncertain. This is a week to practice living with love’s heaviness, as well as its joy.

 Maybe the wind will start to blow cool again, and maybe the streets will finally release some of the heat they’ve held all summer.
Maybe the tilt of the earth will hit just the right angle; maybe you’ll begin dreaming of change again. Where the air felt hazy before, now it can be sharp again. Where your imagination felt blurred and dull, now it can remember how to move, how to leap.

 Sometimes, your own desire can beat so hard in your chest that it’s hard to walk straight, and the search for care and recognition can feel like a burden, a storm cloud, a bruise. This week, maybe this weight will lift, even if you stay rooted to the ground. Sometimes, all you have to do is find a vessel large enough for your love to fit.

 There are so many bright, good ideas in the world, so many ways to care. There are arguments constructed as elegantly as a cathedral, as sturdily as a mountain, but you don’t need to hold them all close. Your thoughts are almost infinite, and your time is not. It’s okay to turn away from the ideas that don’t move you. There’s so much in the world you don’t need to care about — it’s okay to let some of it go.

 This week, you might feel some kind of bright energy on your side. It won’t be the energy of anxiety or the energy of spinning gray doubt, but something you can use. This is a week for sending the letters you’ve been holding on to, or for speaking the words that lingered deep in your head. You’ve waited so long, and you’ve worked so hard. It’s not the sky or the tides that can make you brave, but all the energy you’ve stored up, finally ready to use.

 You’re so good at keeping your balance, and you’re good at speaking only the words you know to be true, but this week, if you start to find it difficult to move, remind yourself that it’s not a moral failing to be wrong sometimes. You can grant yourself space for messiness. The world changes faster than we can learn how to live in it. You can pause, and you can learn, and you can keep moving forward from here.

 This week, give yourself time to remember who you are, and the person you’re trying to be. Give yourself a moment just to remember the best thing you’ve ever done, and the best things you’re still working toward. In the middle of the world’s cruelties, in the middle of a long dull day, it gets so easy to forget. Who are the people who will call you back to yourself?

 Sometimes it’s thrilling, the way your thoughts spin and rush through the world. Sometimes it’s thrilling to feel such hunger for every kind of story and every kind of life, but this week, if you want to, let yourself slow down. Your imagination is already so bright and wild, and the world is so big. Your body doesn’t need to stay in constant motion. Your desires don’t have to match the speed of sound.

  If you know what kind of world you want to live in, how far are you willing to travel to find it? Some days you’re moved by the desire that runs through your veins, and some days by the feeling of pure bright joy, like sunlight on your skin. This week, you might be moved by something else. If you pay attention to this tender feeling of care for the world you live in, what could you be moved to do?

 This week, you can resist the idea that the only way to live is to know yourself first. You don’t have to think of your life like a story that’s already happened, or of yourself as a person who must be knowable. You’re allowed to live without having any of the answers at all. It’s good and it’s beautiful to know who you are, but it’s not an assignment you need to do before being alive.

  Sometimes, it’s so hard to look at your own moods and your own desires clearly, without thinking that you need to become a critic. It’s so hard to look at your own moods honestly, without the nagging thoughts that you need to fix something. This week, it’s okay to let yourself feel what you’re going to feel, without imagining you need to be changed. You have your own landscape — mountains and forests and plains full of life. You have your own oceans — uncharted and blue and wild.

Mercury, still retrograde, enters Leo on Thursday. This is the last week of Mercury retrograde until December. What will you do while you wait for the skies to right themselves? With Mercury in Leo now, there’s space to look back, and space to look ahead. There’s space to dream up your next steps while you wait for the wind to change.

 This week, you might be reminded of all the forces bigger than you are, all the history that stretches out behind you and the power that looms overhead. It isn’t easy to be this small. You won’t know yet what your own actions mean, in this larger context. The future doesn’t all belong to you, but your own days still do.

 You don’t have to let your feelings guide every step you take. You don’t have to let them pull you under the water or chase you up mountains, across plains; you don’t have to let them haunt you, or bully you. Sometimes a body can feel dizzy with sorrow, and it doesn’t mean there isn’t joy for you, too. Sometimes, feeling deeply is a kind of work, as much as anything else.

 This is a week for walking, a week for gathering, a week for keeping your eyes open to see what you might find. This is a week for the gifts you can’t give yourself. Wild strawberries grow in the forest, and mushrooms grow in the dirt. Other people have stories to tell you that you’d never have imagined alone. You’re a whole world, a whole bright system, but you’re a person, too, living in a world full of kindness and other people.

 You can look up at the sky and see the stars changing overhead. You can walk along a river and see traces, sometimes, of the ways its path has changed over time. You have your own place in the world, but that doesn’t mean you’re never allowed to change it. If the shape of your home can no longer hold you, if the lines of your life no longer fit, you aren’t stuck here. You’re free to go where you’re called, if you’re ready to be brave enough to change.

 There are heavy forces pressing on you from all sides, and there are powers that could shift the very orbit of the Earth, but right now it’s okay to focus on your own smaller life, on the world you do know. In your own town and on your own street, what do you ignore and what do you see? If you’re already kind, how will you be wild? If you’re already wild, how will you be brave?

 Even now, there’s sometimes a stark piercing terror in taking your own self seriously. Taking yourself seriously requires such vulnerability, such tenderness, a love for yourself so soft and so brave it’s hard to look at. This week, try to give yourself this gift. State your desires aloud, simply, without flinching, without squeezing them until they’re small.

 This week might have you feeling like you’re moving in circles, like you’re returning to a place you’ve been before. If you recognize this landscape, if you recognize these hills, it doesn’t mean you’ve made no progress. You don’t have to renounce every person you used to be, or forget every idea you’ve ever had before today. Change doesn’t have to move in one straight line.

 Sometimes you can practically feel the whole world shaking, and sometimes the air just feels heavy and still, and either way, you’re going to make it through. This isn’t empty optimism, it’s just a quiet true thing. You’ll move through today, and the next day will come. The Earth will spin on its axis, and then it will spin again. You don’t have to look for the end of the world yet.

 You might feel like you’re approaching a threshold. Maybe there’s adventure ahead, and maybe there’s sweetness. Maybe there’s the love you’ve been seeking for so long. It might feel easy to try propelling the world forward with the sheer force of your desire, easy to imagine that all the energy of your impatience might finally make time speed up. But time, just like you, can’t be controlled. Try to let yourself experience the sweetness in the waiting.

  This week might bring some weird restlessness and this, too, is a way of understanding the world. A song doesn’t need a clear message to do something to your heart. Your thoughts don’t need to fit neatly together to create meaning you can use. You can write down your dreams, but you don’t have to decode them. Sometimes it’s better just to let the sky’s deep blue wash over you, heavy as a blanket, quiet as the breeze.

 The best parts of this week might come from something other than success, something other than moving forward. There is a joy that can light you up, and it has nothing to do with productivity, nothing to do with climbing some imagined ladder. This is a week for reconnecting with the most illogical love you know how to feel. There are so many ways to live when you refuse to let your wildness be suppressed.

  You don’t have to do anything special to deserve a life that’s good and bright and full of surprise. You don’t have to prove yourself better than anyone else to deserve a rest when you’re tired and food when you’re hungry. Even when you feel finished, even when you feel sour, you deserve this full human life. Try to remind yourself of this, this week, until your belief in your own life feels as real as the rocks on the ground, as real as the bark on the trees.

Today, finally, is the total solar eclipse in Leo. This eclipse will bring change — can you feel it in your bones, or in your words, or in your dreams? Today, the eclipse will shake up the sky, and tomorrow, we’ll continue to live.

 This week, don’t let yourself be limited by fear. Don’t let yourself shrink in the face of some real or imagined darkness. This is a week for tending to the fire in your heart, for nurturing all your best courage. There are so many different ways a person can feel afraid, and none of them are insurmountable. Fear of loneliness can feel as tight and as heavy as fear of the end of the world, but neither means you get to stop trying.

 It’s okay to wonder and it’s okay to worry, just remember that sometimes a change that looks like catastrophe can morph and shift, right in front of your eyes. The end of the world isn’t here yet. The ferns and the moss keep sending their spores off in the breeze, and you keep living. What feels like danger might still just be life. What feels like uncertainty might turn, in the end, into sweetness.

 This week, try not to worry so much about whether your insides match up with the world around you. Don’t worry if your heartbeat doesn’t match all the movements you see with your eyes. If the wild spinning world is at odds with the fear and the joy in your guts, it’s all right. It isn’t your job to reconcile every emotion, to force all the pieces together. It’s enough, for now, just to keep your eyes open to the world.

 Sometimes, the best thing about change is becoming reacquainted with all the ways your body knows how to move. This week, you might just need to remember how to loosen your grip on the future you want. Remember to stop sometimes, and look around at how much there is in the world. If your dreams come to the edge of the ocean, they can learn to swim. If they come to the edge of a cliff, they can learn to fly. There is more than one path, and more than one end.

 This is a week of little green plants in spaces where you thought there was no life, or water in places you thought were dry, or hope in spaces you thought were spiny and barren. These aren’t the days for surprises that shake the Earth’s core, but for these moments of soft, unexpected generosity. It’s good to pay attention to where you’re going, and good to pay attention to where you’ve been, but it doesn’t mean there are no surprises left. Let the world prove you wrong, sometimes.

 This week might grant you a freedom you hardly realized you’d been missing, or a relief you didn’t know you were searching for. It isn’t quite magic, or some impossible new happiness. Pay attention to how your body feels. It might lift off the ground in the sudden absence of this weight. It might feel lost in this new, quiet freedom. When a longstanding ghost finally leaves you in peace, how will you live without it?

 Even inside your own self, the rules are never set. The language keeps evolving. You used to be one person, and now you’re someone wilder, and that’s perfectly fine. You were solid then, and you’re solid now. Your mind can change, because this is what minds were made for. Even the wise, steady ocean changes. Love can tilt and shift, and that doesn’t make it less real.

 This week, all your hard work will pay off, or your waiting will give fruit. All your kindness and energy will prove to you their worth. This week, something in your life will burst into life, but it might not be the seeds you thought you planted. It’s okay. There’s life in the soil, and there’s rain in the sky and there’s something good ahead.

 If you pay attention this week, you might notice the world teaching you how to use your powers. If you watch carefully, you’ll see the Earth and stars showing you how you can use all the gifts you’ve been given. This change on the horizon isn’t about outgrowing your own skin, and it isn’t about becoming somebody new. You’re already holding the magic you need, and all you need to do is learn how to keep holding it.

  There’s an energy building inside your heart this week, bright as the moon. But it can be complicated and uneasy to recognize all this power inside yourself. It can feel dangerous, riding this wild wave of your own energy and desire. Just try not to lose your nerve in the face of so much movement. There’s something building, something good, and all you have to do is be brave enough to ride out this change.

 This week, the question is how you can remember your brightness in a world that would dull your glow and sand down your edges. How will you keep your own bright spark when the sky is heavy and the days are long? You’re as brilliant and true as you’ve ever been, but it’s not always easy to remember. It’s okay to need a life big enough to stretch your limbs.

  The world might be changing too quickly to see a clear way forward — watch the trees and vines grow up quickly around you, or the roads shift underneath your feet. This week, you’ll have to be brave enough to move without knowing the path. You’ll have to start moving before the next step can reveal itself, before the next step is even possible. The future you’re looking for hasn’t been made yet, but that doesn’t mean it won’t be.

   Sometimes, it’s easy to forget the ways your muscles have strained, the way your love has struggled and strived. There is work other than building new houses, work other than discovering worlds. Sometimes, it’s more important to do the work of maintaining the world that exists, with all its green and its blue, all its water and people. Sometimes, it’s more important to do the fierce and tender work of helping yourself and others make it through.

   Some weeks are for sharpening your understanding of the world, for honing and refining. This week, though, is more for broadening, for widening, for deepening. There’s a kind of wisdom that lives outside of words. Maybe you’ll find it in your body or maybe you’ll find it in the moon. Maybe you’ll find it in a moment of surprise, a moment of love, a moment of unnamed recognition. You don’t need all the answers this week; you might not even need any. If you can still feel deeply, you’re using your time well.

   This is a week for taking care of your bodily self and your real living friends, and the rich salty physical earth. It’s easy to dream big dreams of the whole wide world, and easier still to get lost in questions of what to do. It’s easy to take on the imagined weight of this whole world, more and more, until you can hardly stand underneath it. Don’t imagine away your own power, this week. Don’t imagine away the strength you have to keep moving, to keep living, to make the changes on the ground that matter.

   This is a week for refusing the stories that would have you believe the world will be this way forever. It’s not so easy, sometimes, to maintain a belief in transformation, in a future different from the present. This is a week for nurturing that belief like it’s a new baby. You can tend to your belief in survival until it becomes stronger, until it becomes a belief in joy, too, and abundance.

   It can feel like all the world’s streets and hallways only mark edges and borders and boundaries. It can feel like everything there is was only made to limit you, like all the possibilities have been marked and named already, and there’s nothing else and no way outside. This is a time for escaping the bleakness of a life predetermined. There’s a bright generative energy inside you this week.

   You might look around and find the world different, changed in some small way — a color you haven’t seen before, or a new music at the back of your thoughts. Listen to your senses, this week. Try to trust that your sight and your skin and your weird bright intuition are giving you something valuable. This is a change that will bring you something you need: maybe excitement, or maybe tenderness, or maybe quiet relief.

   There might be days, this week, when the world invites all your spite and your greed to blossom, but remember you have the strength to refuse. You can turn your head, or you can walk away, or you can stand in place, brave and unmoved. Think about what it’ll take to nurture your sweetness, what it’ll take to build a world where all these small lives thrive. You can answer the dark world with a wild, disobedient love.

   It’s possible to work magic on your own body, on your own self, on your very vision of yourself and the world. It’s possible to wear shapes and colors that will let you imagine yourself as someone else, someone graceful or bold or brave, someone less in thrall of a world as violent as this one. It’s possible to reach somewhere strange and deep inside your own thoughts to turn them around, to shake life back into them, to start loving this world truly again.

   Take some time this week to remember the different ways you used to be, brave or sincere or just searching, wandering through a dark and dreamy space. It’s worth reaching back to that feeling sometimes, when your life feels like a hard shell around your body. The world is still as full of mystery now as it was before. There’s still as much ahead of you, if you can just give your thoughts space to develop, to ripen, to become as weird as they’re meant to be.

   Fear alone can’t make you cruel, and this week it’s important to remember that. Even when you can feel the fear eating a hole in your stomach, even when you can taste its poison seeping into your dreams and your quietest thoughts, you don’t need to be taken down by this. Your bones are made of carbon and of courage, and your blood moves hot and true. The world isn’t strong enough to make you hateful, only to make you strange. You just have to decide which strangeness you’ll choose.

   You’ve been making your life smaller lately, maybe, and that’s good. It can feel like medicine, sometimes, to peel away everything inessential, every loose piece of fabric that might catch on a nail. Cutting away every extraneous part that might one day learn to hurt you can be the best way to survive through the night. This week, though, there’s something new in the air, the smell of sage or the smell of rain. It might be time to start expanding again, to start inviting the messy world back into your heart.

   This week, you might be so full of energy that you can feel your own mind humming. You can watch the sun and the stars and see your own yellow heat reflected back at you. There’s so much you can get done in a week like this, and it’s lucky and good. Just remember that you weren’t put here solely to get things done. You don’t have to be productive to be wild and good and worthy of life. Remember, in the quiet pink dawn, that your energy isn’t just for work, but for living, too.

   Loneliness might overtake you for a moment, and it’s okay. Quiet yearning might slip into your sparkling, vivid life, and there’s nothing wrong with this. Even a life in forward motion can’t protect you from unruly desire. You can listen to sad dreamy songs, or you can wander the streets of your city, or you can stay up late and let the cool night breeze into your bedroom. Drink a glass of water and feel how your heart can grow full on these feelings, too.

 Sometimes, it’s just joyful to live in the world with other people. You don’t have to focus on the difficulty this week, or the noise, or the small petty moments of unkindness. The joy of living in a world with other people, and the joy of working to build a future better than the one we have now — it won’t always be enough to sustain you, but for now, this week, it might be.

 You don’t have to be satisfied with the surfaces, with the exteriors, with the information you’ve already been given. This week might be a week for digging, or for reading, or for listening carefully, with attention and love, to the stories people tell you. There’s more in the world than you know right now, and if you’re lucky, if you’re deliberate, your desire to know it can make you brave, and generous, too.

 Maybe the place where you live is overgrown and tangled with reckless green vines, or maybe it’s surrounded by buildings that block out the light of the sun. Maybe you’re moving through a faraway wilderness, and maybe you’ve forgotten the way home at all. The world around you is twisted up in stories and heavy with doubt, but it’s okay to remind yourself that you’re still human.

 It’s possible, this week, to emerge from some kind of darkness. It’s possible to cast light into even the deepest, most frightening corners of your dreams. There’s enough space for you to return to yourself even now, after a run of strange long days. It isn’t even about second chances, just about the generosity of a human life, the sweet strange luck that you get to keep on living, growing ever brighter, ever wilder.

 This is a good week to be driven by your curiosity, a good week to give space to your funny, open heart. You don’t have to use every shred of your energy to decipher the world, to fit it into language. When the sun shines as hot as this, when the skies are as clear, when the nights are hazy and smell like flowers, sometimes it’s better just to open your eyes and watch.

 This week, as the moon moves and changes shape, you might feel your ambition growing in size and strength. A desire for change might run wild through your blood, or light your whole body up, or bring strength to your muscles and your words. It’s hard sometimes to know what to do with an energy like this. But you don’t have to impress anyone, or put on any show. That’s not what this week’s energy is for.

 When you know your own heart, you don’t have to let anyone try to sway you. It isn’t about defensiveness or inflexibility, just about your own bone-deep knowledge of the way the sun feels on your skin, and the way your voice feels in your chest, and the way the passing of time makes your dreams broaden and bloom. It isn’t about anything but a stubborn insistence on your own right to live.

 Think of the ways you’ve related to fear in your life so far. Sometimes the unknown can swallow you whole, but that isn’t all it can do. You don’t need to sidestep every weird glinting moment of uncertainty. You don’t need to turn your back, walk away, return to the safety of the place you came from. If you move into the confusion, if you let the fear look you right in the face, you came come out the other side made new, made wild, ready to live.

 As soon as you think you know the world, this is when it surprises you again. This is a week for rediscovery, for letting your eyes become soft or gentle or curious again. You’re learning, and you’re getting older. You’re getting better at reading the signs in the earth and sky, better at living through your days. Just remind yourself, this week: None of this means there is no wonder here left for you.

 It’s such a strange thing, to be a human person, made of the world but living inside it, too. It’s hard, like this, to feel your own edges, where the world stops and where your own self begins. This is a week for sweating, for drinking, for floating in water. You’re made of water, but that doesn’t mean you aren’t also a person. You still get to say what you’ll welcome into your own life.

 It’s hard sometimes to express your realest self, your truest words, an image of yourself that doesn’t strain or pull or itch at the inside of your skin. You can be loyal to yourself and you can be loyal to the world and you don’t have to choose between them, this week. You can be as gentle to yourself as you are the the world. You can be as loyal to the water that springs from the earth as you are to your own body. You can be who you are, this week, and the world will reflect your truest self back to you.

 Even now, there are places of pure wildness in the world and even now, there are bright energies that cannot be contained by any evil. The world will keep moving even if you need to stop for a moment. If you need to sit alone in a quiet room, or if you need to spend an afternoon laughing with your sweet friends, it’s okay. The forest holds secrets different from the sea’s, and they’ll both keep telling their stories even if, here on the ground, you need to rest.

 The summer sun can make your thoughts go hazy; your dreams can start to shimmer in the heat. It’s easy to see this as some kind of failure, a dulling of your senses, but that wouldn’t be fair. Running across the whole Earth isn’t the only kind of movement. Wisdom doesn’t always have to be sharp, and total clear vision isn’t the only way to know the world.

 It can tire a person out, to be given so many chances to be brave. It can tire a person out, for the sun to keep rising and for the Earth to keep moving. This week is for resting, for waiting, for doing what it takes to pull energy back into your body. Do you need to walk to the top of a mountain? Do you need to float on the surface of the sea?

 You don’t have to worry you’re doing too much, and you don’t have to worry you’re being too much. You’re a person when you’re quiet and a person when you’re wild, like the sky is the sky whether it’s blue or gray or black. You don’t have to work so hard to regulate yourself this week. All you have to do is try your hardest to be brave; you don’t have to plan what your courage will look like.

 You might find yourself hungry for reassurance that the path you’re on is the right one. Even when you’re working as hard as you can, even when your muscles and bones are tired by evening, it’s so hard to know. Is it enough for your love to burn bright as a star? Is it enough for it to burn close as the sun? You can’t fully measure your own goodness, so all you can do is keep trying. The light that you cast is enough.

 This week, the world might feel like it’s starting to spiral, like it’s pulling itself out of its orbit. This week, all this movement around you might feel too fast, too broad, too wild, and it might be good to return to the quiet generous moments. There are so many ways for you, even now, to make this hard world more bearable.

 Your kitchen or your bedroom or the inside of your head might start to feel stuffy in all this summer heat. This is a week for letting the air back in. It’s a week for opening the windows to the cool evening, for turning on the fan and letting the blue night air blow through your house. When your dreams fill with fear, you can still fill them with soft light.

 Maybe this week you can feel a current of energy running through you, an electric charge snapping like lightning through your thoughts. It might feel like rage or it might feel like water or it might feel like nothing but warm yellow light. Whatever its color and whatever its heat, this energy is yours, and it can guide you as you move through this week.

 Even when the work of living in the world seems overwhelming, there’s still magic hiding somewhere. There’s still light to soothe your tired soul. The rivers are still flowing and there’s life inside them, green and brown and gold. The plants outside your window hold water, and they carry memory. There’s comfort somewhere here for you, even if it’s not the comfort you were looking for.

 Pay attention to the dreams that stay with you, the stories that haunt you, the memories that snag in your mind like wool. Pay attention to the thoughts that don’t come easy or move smoothly, the ones that keep demanding, all the way from the bottom of the sea, to be heard. The ideas most worth your time aren’t always the ones with the most golden songs.

 This is a week for speaking, and a week for asking to be heard. This is a week for honesty so sharp it can cut through the earth and vulnerability as soft and rich as dark forest soil. It isn’t easy to show your real self to other people, but it’s where the wildest, sweetest growth happens. Some weeks are best when you float through them, and some weeks are best if you wait and hide until they’ve passed — but this is a week for standing up and letting your bright heart beat.

 What would it mean, this week, to show up for the people in your life and your neighborhood, and to ask them to show up for you? Solitude is one thing, as clear and as sweet as the moon, but it’s not a space you need to live in forever. If you give freely of yourself, the world will remember your gift. You can watch a whole bright world spring into being, and know that part of this world is made of your own love, and know that this kindness will be here for you, too, when you need it.
 This isn’t the one week that will finally fix your whole world. It’s okay, sometimes, to accept a smaller offering. It can be enough just to make a temporary peace with your face or your skin or your memory. It can be enough just to trust your body enough that you can rest inside it. If you’re willing to accept something less than perfection, that’s when the world can surprise you.

 You’re lucky to already be so decent and brave in the face of real danger but how, this week, will you deal with your quieter, more slippery fears? Remember, you don’t need to fear that you aren’t enough, and you don’t need to fear you’ll be forgotten. There are so many different ways the world will invite you to be afraid, but you’re still stronger than any of them.

 This is a week for memory, and it’s a week for forgetting, too. It’s a week for letting yourself live in the past, if you need to. Sometimes memory can weigh you down but sometimes it can make you strong. Who are the ghosts that call to you, and how will you greet them?

 Outside in the sun’s glaring brightness, it’s not easy to recognize every gift that’s offered. The world has so much to give, but it doesn’t always announce them in a language you can hear. Sometimes, the kindest gift is just empty space, or an afternoon that belongs only to you. Sometimes, the most generous gift is just one good moment. If you pay attention, you can recognize these small sweet freedoms.

 Don’t ignore the power flowing through you, this week. Don’t ignore the wild strength in your arms, or the electric charge in your thoughts. But no power means you need to upend your own life. Power doesn’t mean you need to wreck or rebuild the world. Sometimes, all you need to do with it is remain unmoved in the face of greed or unkindness.

 You don’t have to maintain good cheer in the face of every rainstorm, but this week, you might be able to notice the colors around you in a brighter way. Pay attention to the greens and the blues and the yellows; pay attention to the orange sky at night. Even now, let yourself notice the world’s vibrancy. It can start your own heart vibrating, too.

 You don’t have to move at the same speed for the rest of your life, and you don’t have to keep accelerating forever. Some weeks are for moving slowly, and some weeks are for stopping, standing still. You can change rapidly, but you can change slowly, too. You can change direction entirely. Your feelings aren’t bound by the laws of physics, and you don’t have to keep the same pace forever.

 It’s easy, sometimes, to talk about your desires until you reach a conclusion about how you want to live in the world. It’s vital and good to feel these flashes of clear vision that light up the night, but it’s so much harder to carry it all with you. It’s so much harder to keep it in your heart full on days that are long or slow or dull. This is a week for remembering your commitments to yourself, and holding them close to you.

 This is a week for encountering the unexpected and moving through it. It’s a week for encountering the unexpected and sitting quietly with it. Sometimes your surprises look like rain, and sometimes they look like shadows. Maybe you’ll come across a clearing in the woods where you expected only darkness. Maybe a green and gold dream will come to you in the middle of a restless night.

 This week, be prepared for some kind of intimacy to find you, even if you aren’t expecting it, even if you’d rather hide from it. There are so many ways the world holds you close. There are so many people with emotions as weird and messy as yours. Your own feelings can feel sharp inside you, and your own love can surprise you, and that, all of it, is okay.

 This is a week to resist the impulse to let a hostile world turn you hostile, or the impulse to let a selfish world make you small. You can’t control every bad thing in the world, but you don’t have to let it twist your insides up. This week, it’s okay to require a softness in the things you’ll allow to touch your skin. Your life is still your own, and you don’t need to invite anything into it but goodness.

 There are weeks for following only your own heart, and there are weeks for something different. It’s okay, sometimes, to act out of duty. It’s okay sometimes to act out of love for the world. It isn’t even a matter of sacrifice; this is just the work of becoming more human. Even while you’re dreaming of flying, it’s good that you’re just where you are, with your feet on the ground.

 Take a minute this week, when the air around you is quiet and the energy in you electric, to think about the thing you’ve been waiting for, the thing you’ve been holding back on. This, right now, might be the time to start. It might be the time to make a move. If you’ve been waiting for a sign, you can keep watching the sky, but don’t think you need to wait for permission.

 This is a week for bending, for shifting, for changing shape and direction. It’s okay to bend toward the sunlight you need. It’s okay to cut your hair. You have the power this week to resist anyone else’s ideas of what you should look like, or what the shape of your life should be. There is no ideal form to strive for; there’s only life, and there’s more than one way to grow up strong. Nothing is written in the stars except movement.

 If you don’t trust your work this week, what can you do to change that? What can you do to become grand again in your thoughts, to become wild, to believe in the places your own mind can lead you? It’s your choice, how you’ll use your body and how you’ll use your time, and you don’t have to know yet how that will be. Trust in yourself can be built like muscle, like a house.

 Think about the happiness you’re seeking, or the freedom, or the bright blazing ambition. This is a week to think clearly about your desires, without hiding from them, without burying them too deep in your body to hear them speak. You don’t need to fear the barriers ahead of you — some are walls you can climb and walls you can destroy and walls you can walk straight through, like a magic trick, like they never existed at all.

 This is a week for tinkering, for mending, for making repairs. There’s a longing, sometimes, to leave the whole world behind, to keep walking until there’s nothing but wilderness around you, until you’ve reached a place where you can begin anew. But there’s a sweetness in continuity, too. There’s still a dignity in working to heal the wounds that exist now, a hope that lives in mending.

 How will you engage with the world this week? How will you live your life among all the world’s other plants and people? There are different ways of looking at a landscape, different ways of understanding your body in the world. You aren’t alone here. There are pleasures in staying inside and looking out the window at a changing world, but this is a week for the pleasures of walking out onto the street and feeling the warm air on your skin.

 The physical world might be finite — the continents have edges and the sea has a bottom — but this isn’t a week for acting like the whole world revolves around scarcity. How can you know the limits of your feelings? How can you know the limits of your goodness, unless you push? The universe might not go on forever, but for now there are birds in flight, gentle rain in the morning. There’s no need to save all your love for the end of the world.

 As you grow up, and grow older, and grow into yourself, there are parts of you that whither, deflate, go cold. Even in the forest, brush can dry and burn, and this is part of a healthy life, not a failure, not a loss to mourn. This week, you might reach a turning point where you’ll need to decide what to do with some of your ghosts. Will you breathe life back into them and carry them forward? Or will you let them fall, gently, to the ground?

 How does it feel when you raise your voice this week? How does it feel to shout, and how does it feel to sing? How does it feel to speak only the truths you know? If the world throws some small strangeness at you, this is a chance to test the strength of your voice. If a storm howls at night, if a song beats in your chest, how will you let this energy live in your body? How much love and how much courage will your voice bear?

 It’s such a thorny problem sometimes, living your human life in this big world, but there is joy here, too. Let yourself notice it this week. Let yourself notice the crackle of energy when you make a guess that turns out right, and the jolt of recognition when a truth that was once hidden suddenly becomes clear. Let yourself notice the feeling of cool water against your skin, or the floaty feeling of sleep after a long day.

 It takes one kind of skill to move through the world quickly, with determination, with efficiency and ease. Slowing down takes skills altogether different, though it offers rewards just as great. How can you ease into a different way to live in time? Can you slow down enough that you remember your own heartbeat? Can your slow down enough that you can feel the world slowly expanding around you?

 This week, stillness isn’t a passive project. There are ways to make a change in your life without running away from the place where you are now. You don’t have to bring yourself to a whole new landscape every time you need to take a breath. Being known and being seen might feel like unbearable pressure, but sometimes this pressure is what keeps your heart beating. Think about what calls you home again when you lose your way.

 You don’t always have to know your own way.
It’s okay, sometimes, to work from an incomplete map, and it’s okay to doubt the facts and files stored inside your head. Sometimes you lose your own footing, and that’s to be expected. Even when you aren’t sure how far to trust your own thoughts, you still have dreams, full of color and riddles. You still have the wild wordless feeling of music resonating in your bones.

 You’ve worked so hard to be here now, but not even hard work will prevent you from feeling untethered, sometimes. It’s okay: If you start to worry, if you start to wonder why you’re standing here, it might help to drink a glass of water. It might help to read a poem out loud, feeling the rhythm in the voice that’s yours.

 This is a week about the people around you and your relationships with them, relationships that are filled with kindness or anger or a fierce bright confusion. This week, you might notice some shifts. But remember, there are so many ways to be a person next to other people, so many ways to build and break connections. Sometimes love moves like a river, and sometimes it looks like a wall. Sometimes, all you can do is watch while it takes on its true form.

 For every good way there is to fill a day, there’s also a way to let the time stretch and float and wobble. For all the ways you know to grow stronger and braver, there are also ways to look out at the horizon and feel yourself become small and afraid. This is a week for filling your days carefully and courageously. If you need an anchor, listen to the bird songs outside, or the music pumping joyfully from the cars on your block, or the voices of your neighbor’s sweet noisy children.

 How will you plan for a future you can’t yet see? How can you reach for a future when your feet can’t find the ground? You already know how to move, and you already know how to fight. You already know the steady beating of your own heart, and you know what your skin and guts long for. It’s okay, this week, to take a tentative step into the dark. Forward motion doesn’t always feel like a sprint.

 It’s worth reminding yourself, sometimes, that change isn’t something to be avoided, and that measurable forward growth not the only kind of change worth reaching for. And if you can’t stay still your whole life, and if you can’t always move forward in one straight reliable line, what else is there? There are surprises, and wildness in your heart.

 Sometimes, the greatest challenge is just to steel yourself against ideas that are too simple, against the stories about yourself that are easiest to believe.
You don’t have to believe the funny, seductive voice of your own self-loathing, or the sugary voices telling you it’s okay to stop trying. You can trust your own gut and you can trust your own skin, but sometimes it’s harder to access your own body’s wisdom than you might imagine.

 Some weeks, more than others, you can feel the rivers rising, you can feel the tides ebbing and flowing. Some weeks you can feel your own blood pumping through you, steady and alive. You don’t have to know you’re breathing to keep breathing. You don’t have to control the earth’s gravity to keep living. Sometimes you can just travel on waves of feeling, waves of desire, waves of wild emotion.

 There’s so much to be done in the world, so many projects to work on, so many ideas that sparkle and wave. There are so many flowers that line the streets, and so many windows that shine in the evening with warm yellow light. And it’s a good thing, a sweet thing, to live in a world so full of sun and possibility, but you can’t live every life you’ve ever imagined. You can only make your own life good. If you set aside, for now, some of the possibilities that surround you, what would you focus on?

 When the sky gets heavier, when the air gets thick with humidity, it’s so easy to let yourself forget all you ever loved in yourself, to forget all you ever loved in the world. But it’s all still here for you, waiting.
There are still places in the world that are quiet, and places that swell with music. Your dreams are still your own, private and strange. You still know how to wield the magic you’ve always had — it’s just a matter of remembering.

 There are struggles that are good and right, and there are struggles you don’t need. Not everything difficult will make you bigger. Not everything painful can turn into something bright. This is your only life, and it’s all yours. There’s no reason not to treat yourself with all the gentleness and love you need. The world’s already hard; you’ve already been brave. There’s no reason not to allow yourself whatever happiness you can find.

 Sometimes, you just need to spend an afternoon alone, which doesn’t mean you’re asking to spend your lifetime that way. Sometimes, you just need to shout, and it doesn’t mean you’re asking for nothing but anger. You’re going to keep growing however you grow. And somewhere, there’s a place where you can sit and be, where you can let your own wildness pass through you. Give yourself these small quiet moments, when you don’t demand more of yourself.

 When the world tries to make sense of you, it’s okay to push back. You’re made of life and motion, and you have work to do here beyond making yourself perfectly knowable. Your wildness is a thing of value too. Even under the world’s watchful eyes, you’re allowed to shift and change. You’re allowed to define who you are, then define yourself anew.

 Notice the way other people move and speak. Notice the way history speaks through the living world. You can trust your own eyes this week, and you can trust your own skin. You have a sharp sense of goodness and of cruelty, and it won’t steer you wrong. The world holds its own kind of wisdom, and you’ll see it if you look.

 It can be difficult to remember that beyond your projects, beyond your work, beyond even your friendships, you’re still a full person. Think of the green forests that grow without being tended. Think of the ocean depths no human has ever seen. There’s something in you still, something bigger than your daily life, bigger than the whole bright city. There’s a whole wilderness in your heart, and it’s okay to let it grow.

 This is a week for fighting the desire to be saved by some bright external force. When the people around you are as wounded as this, it’s hard not to desire a power that could heal everyone in an instant. But most good things take a very long time. Living, too, takes a long time. You’re moving at a human pace, but you aren’t powerless, and you aren’t alone.

 There’s so much to be done, and there’s so much life to live, and even when the sun rises early, even when blue night comes late, the days still move so quickly. It’s a struggle, sometimes, not to let the tiredness overwhelm you. Recognize, as much as you’re able, when to move and when to wait, when to fight and when to let yourself rest, fully and deeply. In the face of these heavy waves of exhaustion, how will you hold on to the sweetness of being alive?

 It’s so difficult, so quietly brutal, to live with all your memories, and with all the past selves you still carry inside you. How confusing it is to grow, but to stay in the same human form. How strange it is to get older, but still hold on to the memory of being young and tender and afraid. How, this week, will you listen to the people you’ve been before? How will your honor the gifts they’ve given you? How, finally, will you allow yourself to grow, to lay your old sorrows down?

 Even you, with your skin so attuned to electric changes in the air, can only know what you know. Even you, with your heart so full of feeling for the world, can only feel what you feel. There are always more shades of grief and joy, but you don’t have to chase them. You don’t have to strive for mastery, to bend your own shape to fit every possible curve and angle. The world will always be larger than you, and what a gift this is.

 Some days are for moving through boredom, and some are for moving through exhaustion. Some days, it’s hard to tell the difference between the two. Sometimes, the world collapses into a strange flat place with no wind, no color, no movement. How can you keep moving through here? How can you bring yourself back to life again? You can rest, if you need rest, but remember also what it’s like to feel excited.

 You might feel like you don’t have enough to show for yourself, for how hard you’ve been working. Your efforts are bright and they’re real, and they’ll carry you to strange good places, but this can be hard to remember when you’re still in the wild, when you’re still in the thick of it, searching. This week, try to trust your body’s movements. Try to trust the path your thoughts are on. You aren’t a finished product, and you never have to be.

 This might be one of those weeks when you feel far from your people and far from the world you want. There’s a specific kind of loneliness to living among people you haven’t chosen; there’s a loneliness to not being seen clearly. Just don’t let it draw all the life from you. It’s always within your power to stay generous, to stay funny and strange.

 If the world feels dim and dull this week, made of sorrow and metal and concrete, you can look for the spots of green, in gardens and sidewalks. And if the little spots of green aren’t enough, raise your eyes and look up to the sky. Watch the colors change, watch the clouds move, watch the stars and the moon come out. Even from where you stand now, the world moves on all these different levels. There’s mystery below and mystery above — you just have to look.

 There are forces wilder and bigger than you are, forces that move over you like the wind, but there are other powers you can resist. Some amount of suffering might be inevitable, but that doesn’t mean it’s necessary or good. You don’t need to seek out suffering like it will make you better, like it will make you human, like it’ll save you in the end. Sometimes you still get to choose what’s going to rule you, and what’s not.

 This week, the best things won’t come from charging ahead. There are days made for discovery and days meant for wild leaps, but sometimes stillness feels as strange as anything else. Sometimes, all it takes is putting together the pieces you already have. You’ve been alive so long already, and you’ve seen so much. The people who came before you have seen even more than that. It’s not up to you to make the whole world new again.

 How are you willing to know this world? This is a week for seeing clearly through the shadows, and clearly through the sun’s harsh brightness, too. Here, the sky might be blue and the leaves still moving and shaking in the wind, but what else can you see? If there’s a way to relate to the world with more honesty, or with more risk, or with more love, this is the time to find it.

 If you pay attention, you might notice changes, small and quiet, drifting in with the clouds and the sea. The days have started getting shorter — can you feel it? There are plants still waiting to bloom — do you feel them, waiting, preparing their energy? Underground, the soil is shifting and alive. A change doesn’t need to look like a total eclipse. Sometimes it doesn’t look like anything at all until it bursts into color. Keep your eyes open.

 Even now, the world holds some kind of sweetness for you — some kind of soft feeling, some kind of bright gift. Think of the funny moments with your friends, late at night. Think of the quiet moments at the edge of the sea. There’s goodness left, even as the world tilts and darkens, and some of it lives in you. This week, imagine a joy that doesn’t belong to you alone. What will you do with what you’ve been given? How will you let this goodness expand?

 You are who you are, and you know this already. You’re made of charm and you’re made of wisdom, and there are whole generations of cruelty and sorrow written on your bones. And with a will as strong and wild as yours, it’s easy to imagine that you’re stuck this way, molded into this one shape forever. There’s not one thing in your soul that needs to be changed, but it’s not too late, if you want, to change the way you move through the world.

 Remind yourself, again: You don’t have to do everything. You’re getting stronger and you’re getting braver, and even now, even after all this practice, you can still only do as much as you can do. You deserve good friends and clean water and rest. You deserve a world better than this one, and it’s okay to grieve when the work you do doesn’t seem to be enough. You still get to keep trying.

 There’s not one single thing in the world that is easy right now, not even dreaming and not even love, but still you can keep living. Even if you don’t know the answers, and even if you won’t live forever, you can still live through this. There’s a blue sky full of clouds, and a black sky full of stars. There’s a world full of light and water and other people. The world’s goodness isn’t enough right now, but it might be someday.

 This is a week for unrecognized faces and unidentified trees, for unknown sorrows and unknown pleasures, for the whole, bright world full of things you don’t have to name. You don’t have to fit any of these mysteries into theories of good and evil. There’s a place for codes and systems, and there’s goodness in knowledge, but this week, if they get in the way, if they bring you sorrow and no clarity, it’s okay just to feel.

 Some weeks are for moving through discomfort. Some weeks are for clarifying again who you are and where you’re going. Do you need to open the parts of you that have closed like a fist? Do you need to maintain the boundaries that keep you safe and free? Just keeping your balance requires so much work, and keeping your goodness requires even more, but even this strangeness is worth it.

 You might feel a shift in the ways you’re willing to see the world, or else a shift in the ways the world is willing to show itself to you. This is a week for a new kind of vision, a week to be haunted by a different story, moved by a different song. You don’t have to know everything already. You don’t have to be prepared for all scenarios, equipped already with all of history. You just have to be observant — willing to look, willing to see, willing to change.

 This is a week for skepticism, maybe, a week for some kind of doubt. You don’t have to believe what you’re told just because you’ve been told it. You don’t need to let every idea make a home inside you. The world is big and the moon shines bright and it’s not always easy to live here. It’s not always easy to live among so many other people. You don’t have to value every word that’s ever been spoken aloud, and this, too, is a way of loving the world.

 Sometimes it’s hard to even recognize loneliness — it takes so many different shapes, and it moves and morphs so quickly. Sometimes it’s hard to recognize a thing even when it takes up space in your own chest, even when it makes it hard for you to breathe. There’s no quicker way to lose heart than to imagine you’re the only one who’s ever felt this way, to imagine you have to live your whole life alone. It isn’t a bad thing to feel loneliness. Try to just let it move through you.

 Sometimes, the moment you think you have an answer, the question quietly, subtly shifts. Sometimes, the minute you believe you’ve found what you were looking for, the ground you walk on goes a little slanted, a little strange. It isn’t such a bad thing to have days like this. Some days are for walking on solid ground, and some days are for flight, and there’s nothing wrong with either one.

 It’s impossible to live in a world like ours without bending or changing or letting your own self down, and this week, remember that’s all okay. Drink a glass of cold water, or swim in the cool ocean, or sit on the porch in the evening, when the air starts to cool down. You’re still wilder than so many of the barriers out there. You still get to define how brave you want to be, and how kind.

 This is a week for crossing rivers, for crossing town, for crossing between whole worlds. It’s a strange, in-between place to be, and the air is thin — there’s magic here, but there’s weirdness, too. Look for the lines that form the bounds of your world, until you step across. You’re on one side until suddenly, you make a change. There’s fear that comes with this kind of motion, but the courage and the joy still burn brighter.

 You might feel some pressure releasing, some tension easing. You might feel something that was heavy in your guts suddenly grow light again; you might feel a dense gray fog start to lift. This week, let go of the burdens that are ready to let go of you. Breathe out until your lungs are empty, and breathe in again in the clear night air. If you’re looking to get out from under this weird heavy gloom, the time could be right now.

 Are you getting the love you really need, and are you giving what you need to give? It’s so hard to tell, sometimes, and when the balance is off, it’s so hard to live as gently and as bravely as you want. What will you do to keep your blood flowing? What will you do to keep your feelings in motion?

 Try to remember the best change you ever chose for yourself. Try to remember the last big risk you took, and how it blazed into life and brought new movement to the inside of your head. This week, when you’re resting, when you’re feeling soft, or when you’re stuck in a boredom that seems it’ll never end — remember how quickly you can spring to life again. You’ve done it before.

 There’s this fear that sneaks up sometimes: when, for all your brightness, you feel you’re being forgotten, that for all your goodness, you’re being overlooked. It tastes like dirt and smells like metal, this feeling of not being known. Remind yourself that it’s okay to work quietly, to hold on to your secrets, to bloom under the moonlight. You’re no less brilliant, you’re no less alive. There are worse things than waiting to be seen.

 You can make a choice, you can commit to a path, and neither of those decisions mark any kind of end. There’s no one choice that marks an end to other choices. You can choose, and you can act, and then watch the new possibilities branch out before you. Try not to hold back, or be afraid. You can try and you can live and you can always change your mind.

 This is a week for keeping records, for preserving your memories, for bearing witness. It isn’t easy. There’s so much to see and so much to hold, and memory doesn’t always look like a photograph. Some memories are meant to be held inside a person’s skin. Some are meant to be written; some are meant to be spoken aloud. You aren’t big enough to keep the archives of everything you’ve ever seen or known, and that’s okay. This isn’t your work to do alone.

 Remember, this week, that clarity isn’t the only gift the world can give you. Remember that sharpness and intellect aren’t the only tools for knowing. It’s possible to know a life through touch. It’s possible to know a life through confusion. It’s possible to fill your whole heart with the wild and unsure openness that is love’s best gift. Uncertainty leaves space for a future to grow, for time to bloom and unfold. When there’s hesitation, when there’s doubt, there’s room for hope.

 It’s so easy to get used to your own self, to get tired of your own skin. It’s so easy to forget how good you are, and how wild — you’ve grown accustomed to your own magic. This week, you can try going somewhere else, where you’ll be thrown into relief against a new backdrop. You can try doing something different, something that’ll remind you of the limits of your muscles, and remind you of the bright spark you already carry.

 This week, watch the world around you in motion — the fields rolling past, the highways stretching the country, your dreams and desires surging and flowing like the sea. It can be hard, sometimes, for another person to see all the movement inside your chest. It can be hard, sometimes, for you to recognize this even within your own self. But remember, everyone is allowed some rest, including you.
