[MUSIC] The Fengjia Night Market in Taichung,
Taiwan is really famous. They have just about
everything you could imagine. One evening,
you could have also found me there. I ended up at the stall that sold
something called stinky tofu. I mean, stinky tofu is really stinky. The reality is, though, it tastes pretty
good, kind of like a strong cheese. The thing is, you watching me tell
you about stinky tofu is very different from you actually going to the
famed Fengjia night market yourself and tasting stinky tofu. It's only when you actively
do something yourself that you're learning really sticks. Trust me, I'll never forget about stinky tofu. You might think that taking an active
approach to learning is totally obvious. But not only do students
often not get this. Even professional teachers and professors
themselves often don't get this, although it goes right to the heart of how
we can most effectively learn and change. It's easy even for someone like me
who knows better to sometimes take the easier path and avoid being
active in what I'm trying to learn. Active learning applies to any kind of
learning, whether it's learning about stinky tofu, leaning how to speak French,
or learning to play the piano. It also applies to learning in math and
science. This paper right here gathered together
the results of some 200 studies on active learning in science, technology,
engineering, and math programs. Turns out that one in three people
drop out of these kinds of courses if they are taught in the traditional way with the professor droning away
in the front of the classroom. But only one in five students
drops from their course if it's taught with a professor
using active learning, where the students get to actively
work the problems themselves. In other words, the best teachers
build breaks into their lectures so that students can actively
work with the materials. Now, if you're a professor or teacher, and you think well,
there's just no time for this just remember that speaking fast and
covering a lot of material doesn't mean that the students
are actually learning the material. There are guidelines that can
help you cover the material even while your students are actively
learning in your classroom. I once had a student who was flunking
my engineering statistics class. When I questioned him about it, he said
it was because his English was bad. He spoke English as
an additional language. But actually his English was great. It turned out that he just
wasn't taking the time to actively work through
the problems himself. He was fooling himself. Looking at worked out solutions
right in front of him and thinking he knew how
to solve them himself. He also wasn't working
actively with his team. Once we corrected that problem,
and he started working actively with the problems himself, checking them
with others, he began to do much better. As one of the artists for this MOOC
told me, only watching tutorials and avoiding the actual practice is
a big problem with art students who are trying to teach themselves. As another example, let's look at how I helped to construct
the MOOC, Learning How to Learn. I'd never done any camera work or
editing before. I watched YouTube clips to
learn how to edit videos and that helped me to get started. But it was only when I started actively
editing videos myself in conjunction with watching the YouTube instructions,
that it really began to stick. One trick I've learned as a teacher is
to deliberately put my hands behind my back when I'm trying to
show something to students. It helps keep me from reaching out and doing whatever I'm trying
to ask the student to do. For example, it's always tempting for me
to write an equation or adjust the setting myself, because I already know it,
and I can do it much more quickly. I even do this hands-behind-the-back
technique as a mom and as a grandma. So as a learner,
if someone tries to show you by writing or doing it themselves, try to gently push
them away so that you are doing it. More generally do your best to take charge
of whatever you're learning about to put a pen or pencil to paper to take quizzes,
to do assignments, get your hands on it. So you can actively master
the material yourself. Be an active group member
in collaborative testing or any group project or assignment. In other words, test, test, test yourself all the time on
anything you really want to learn. If the book's just open
there in front of you or the video is just played right before you,
you think you know it, but you don't. Only when you close the book or
turn away from the video and test yourself by seeing if you can do it yourself,
do you really know that you know it. Now, here comes the fade to white,
you know what's coming. Okay, that in video quiz
question was totally easy. But we put it there just because it
helps reinforce a vital point and start an effective study
habit in this MOOC. Actually, good quiz questions
can be super helpful for tamping down your knowledge,
which is why it helps to take quizzes. If you have one hour of studying
versus one hour of taking a test, you'll actually learn far more when
taking the test, even if you don't get the answers to the test, and even if you
fail the test and don't know the answers. Well, at least then you know exactly what
questions you want to find the answers to the next time you sit down to study. You can't actively do everything
in every course all the time. From time to time, all of us especially me [SOUND]
are distracted by our wandering minds. [SOUND] But the more you make use of
active learning about the key aspects of a material, the better your ability to
change your thinking to make a MindShift. It can take more effort to learn actively,
so do not be surprised if your brain sometimes finds excuses
to shy away from active learning. Incidentally, working with others
is another way of grappling actively with the material, so that's why it can be so helpful
to interact on the discussion forms. In fact, talking with others is probably more pleasant than any other
kind of active learning. Anyway, all of this is what
is really important for you to actively work through
the exercises we're suggesting. And sometimes to interact with others
to get the most out of this course, or to get the most of any subject
you're trying to master. Incidentally, MOOCs like this
one can be better than just watching a television show about
what you're trying to learn. That's because MOOCs give you
the opportunity to actively practice with the material, and interact with others,
as well as just listen to your professor. So remember, in this course,
and every subject or area where you really want to master the
material, keep yourself working actively. I'm Barbara Oakley. Happy MindShift.