[MUSIC] We should take a few minutes here to
touch on the differences between men and women when it comes to natural passions. A biggie here is the hormone testosterone. Testosterone has lots of effects,
especially on guys, because guys have lots more of it. Testosterone makes for mustaches, and
maybe a bit more cocky behavior, and all sorts of guy things that
I tend to kind of like. Even in the womb, guys generally have
lots more testosterone than gals. Okay, here I want to show a chart
that reveals how testosterone makes a difference in the development
of boys and girls math abilities. Well, [LAUGH] obviously,
there isn't really an effect. Where testosterone does have an effect,
at least early on, is in verbal abilities. As infants and children develop,
it turns out that testosterone can serve as a sort of developmental
drag on verbal abilities. So little boys,
who have more testosterone, tend on average to get a bit delayed
behind girls in their verbal development. This is part of why girls, on average,
are more verbally advanced than boys. Remember, boys and girls are roughly equivalent on average
in their math and science skills. But when you start to put things together,
on average, a girl can look within herself and
her own abilities and say, hey, you know what, I'm kind of better
at verbal sorts of things. And it's true. A boy, on the other hand,
can look within himself, and say, hey, I'm a little better at math
kind of things and that's true too. And all of these happen
even though girls and boys have roughly the same
basic ability to do math. Keep in mind that this is just an average. Individuals can vary quite a bit. And while boys can catch up later in
their verbal development, by then, their self image has
already begun to solidify. We often develop passions about
what we're really good at. As it turns out, it seems easier for girls to get good at subjects
requiring strong verbal skills. For boys, quantitative subjects can seem
easier than those involving verbal skills. Remember, again this is
even though boys and girls have roughly the same basic
abilities to do math and science. Unfortunately, what all this does mean
is that girls frequent big advantage. Their more advanced verbal skills can inadvertently also serve
as a disadvantage. Because of their early verbal advantage,
women can sometimes come to believe that their passions lie in language-oriented
areas which accounts for part of the reason that there are a fewer women
in the technical and scientific fields. Despite the fact that women, as well as
men, are strongly needed in those fields. Passions develop about
what we're good at but some things take longer for
us to get good at. In fact, research has shown that
if something seems hard for us, we can actually learn it better than
if it was straightforward and easy. All of this can have a bearing on
what career paths we tend to choose, especially when we hear advice like,
follow your passion which is often taken to mean,
do what comes easiest for you. In the discussion forum,
describe what you've done or plan to do to broaden your
passions in learning, going beyond what you feel
you're naturally good at. You can help inspire us all. I'm Barbara Oakley, happy Mindshift. [MUSIC]