[MUSIC] When we're studying we
often drink caffeine, which enhances focus by diminishing
the day dreaming alpha waves in our brain. This effect is strongest for about an hour
after drinking a cup of coffee or tea. Although the energizing can
persist about eight hours, which is why it's sometimes better
to avoid that evening cup of coffee. But when you're doing something
that is cognitively difficult, coffee isn't the only booster. You're often subconsciously using
other tricks to increase your focus. For example, if you're trying to remember
something, you tend to avert your gaze. Which avoids overloading your working
memory with unnecessary extra visual information from your environment. Even just closing your eyes can help you ignore distractors when you're
trying to bring something to mind. Let's be honest here. Memorizing comes more easily for
some people than others. Researchers still aren't quite sure why, although there's some evidence
that having the right genes helps. But believe it or not,
being a good memorizer can cause problems. In medical schools for example,
when there's a big anatomy test, ordinary medical students
spend weeks preparing. They will practice over and over again to memorize thousands of
terms in their related functions. Gifted memorizers, on the other hand, can
procrastinate until just a few days before the test, spend a few hours glancing over
the material, and they can still do well. However, when these same memorizing
aces are faced with a different type of medical school exam, for example a test
related to how the heart functions, they find that just a few hours of last
minute cramming just don't cut it. Medical school advisors can sometimes
be startled to find these seemingly star students flunking certain
sections of the curriculum. It seems that quickly memorizing
anatomical terms related to the heart doesn't allow you to understand and answer questions about
the heart's complex function. This is a reminder that simple
focused concentration in memorization often isn't enough when we're trying
to understand a complicated issue. It takes time to understand
complicated systems. Whether we're trying to understand how
to put together a new lighting rig, [LAUGH] figuring out a pumping
system of a human heart, or analyzing the multifaceted
causes of World War II. To untangle such complicated subjects,
we often need to alternate a tight focus on the issue at hand with
steps back to look at the bigger picture. Our need for occasional distraction during
any given learning session may arise from these competing type focus versus
big picture kinds of needs. Basically, it's focused
versus diffuse modes. The focus mode is primarily
centered in the prefrontal cortex, the front part of the brain. The diffuse mode, on the other hand, involves a network connecting more
wide spread areas of the brain. The more extensive nature of diffused
thinking is why it's often related to the unexpected connections that
lie at the heart of creativity. Activities involving the diffuse
mode like walking, or riding a bus, relaxing, or falling asleep, are more likely to lead you to creative
ideas that can seem to arise from nowhere. If we're in a very quiet environment, that
quietness can hype up the focused mode attention circuits while simultaneously
deactivating the diffuse mode. This is why quiet environments are ideal
when we're doing something that demands full concentrated attention,
like doing our taxes or working on a difficult problem on a test. But sometimes we're trying to understand
bigger picture sorts of issues like cardiac function or
computer network connectivity. In that case, a little sporadic noise,
like a snippet of conversation with or the clatter of dishes in the back
round of a coffee shop can help. This is because that bit of noise temporarily allows the longer
range diffuse network to pop up. So, we briefly get a new perspective. This is so effective that there
are even apps with coffee shop sounds. In the discussion forum, you might want to
describe some of your favorite ideas for places to study and unexpected apps
that have helped your learning. Of course, there can come a point
when there's just too much noise, which can keep you from
concentrating at all. Finding a good learning environment
can take a bit of exploration. But that's good because it keeps you from
getting too accustomed to any one study place, which can make your
learning more effective. [MUSIC]