[MUSIC] Have you ever watched as the teacher
would ask a question in class and then before you could even understand
what the question was about, some student already had their
hand in the air with the answer? Some people just plain seem
to have race car brains. They get to the finish line,
they answer really, really fast. Other people like me have what
you might call hiker brains. They get to the finish line but because
they're walking, they get there much, much more slowly. With the race car driver, they do get
to the finish line a lot faster, but everything goes by in a rush. [NOISE] They're also on a set,
smooth roadway. They know exactly where they're going. A hiker on the other hand, moves slowly. But while they're hiking,
they can reach out. They can touch the leaves on the trees,
smell the air, hear the birds. And they can easily veer
off the expected path into places where people
don't normally go. The race car brain and the hiker brain, in other words have two
completely different experiences. And even though the hiker brain may
move much more slowly sometimes, because of how it works
it can see more deeply. My hero in science is a man
named Santiago Ramon y Cajal. Ramon y Cajal won the Nobel Prize in 1906,
for his pioneering work in helping us understand
the structure of the nervous system. Ramon y Cajal is considered
the father of modern neuroscience. But here is where it
gets really interesting, Ramon y Cajal was not a genius. He said so himself and
he wasn't just being humble. However, Ramon y Cajal
worked with geniuses. He found they often
shared similar problems. For example, these geniuses with their
race car brains [NOISE] were used to jumping ahead to speedy conclusions. And when they were incorrect,
they weren't use to changing their minds. So they keep charging ahead with
the incorrect conclusion they jumped to, their super fast brains could
easily devise justification. Because they weren't really looking
to prove themselves wrong. Ramon y Cajal himself though had
a persistent hiker type brain. He'd come up with a hypothesis and
then he'd persistently check it out in a way that
would reveal whether he was wrong. Instead of just trying to
prove that he was right. If he was wrong, he changed his mind and
flexibly try again. So was his persistence and
his flexibility in the face of what the data was truly telling him that
made him superstar researcher. It wasn't his genius. This kind of phenomena is seen
in many different fields. For example, super smart people don't
make very good hostage negotiators. Why? Because they go into the hostage situation
with their own preconceived notions, which are sometimes dead wrong. And then when critical
information does reveal itself, they can't flexibly change their mind and
take advantage of that information. So if you have a race
car brain just be aware, one of your biggest assets can become
your biggest liability if you get too used to thinking you're always right, and
that you're the smartest person around. And if you have a hiker type
brain rejoice, there's much for you to contribute in
the world with your slow, sometimes very unexpected
way of approaching things.