[MUSIC] In our previous MOOC,
Learning How to Learn, we described the two very different
modes of operation of the brain, focused and diffuse. Focused, if you'll
remember, is when you're concentrating. Diffuse is when you're not thinking
about anything at all in particular. We used a pinball machine metaphor to
explain these two different modes. In the focused mode, the rubber bumpers
of the brain were closer together, while in the diffuse mode,
they were farther apart. Your thoughts could bounce further, by
analogy, this is why when you're focusing hard on a problem, you sometimes get stuck
within the tight spaces of the bumpers. And you can't see another,
better way to approach the problem. We also described the importance of
developing a library of neural chunks. Well practiced, mental patterns,
that you can easily draw into your mind. This is all part of the process of
gaining expertise in a subject. Metaphors and
analogies can make learning super simple. Remember, these metaphors and analogies often just serve to
give us a sense of key ideas. Whenever we've reached the limits of
an analogy for helping us to understand something, we can always just throw
that analogy away and pick up a new one. Of course, there's often many different
analogies that we can use to explain any concept. So let's review, while having a little
fun by describing the focus and diffuse modes using some
different analogies. It turns out that your brain puts
its energy, for the most part, into either the focused mode or
the diffuse mode. It can't be in both modes at same time,
not unless you're ingesting certain forms of mushrooms and we're
certainly not suggesting you do that. Focused mode is what happens
when you concentrate, it turns on virtually instantly. Diffuse mode, on the other hand, is when
you're not concentrating on anything. Instead, it's when your
thoughts are moving randomly, like when you're sitting on a bus,
standing in a shower or going for a walk. Diffuse mode kind of sneaks up on you, you're often not aware of having
fallen into the diffuse mode. So, let's look a little more closely at
what's going on in the focused versus the diffuse modes. Here's a top scale view
looking down onto your brain, you can see the little ears right here,
and the nose is on the top. And we know that the brain is
kind of like a set of networks, this is the focused mode network. Look how small those little meshes are, these are sometimes called
task positive networks. Because different parts of
the networks are activated depending on what task you're working on. Multiplication say, versus conjugating a
verb in Spanish or kicking a soccer ball. What we call the diffuse mode is
like a different set of networks, with much bigger meshes. Diffuse mode is actually a catchall
term that we use to signify any of the neural resting states. The most prominent resting state,
incidentally, is called the default mode network. The thing about the diffuse mode, is that
it helps us to make these intuitive leaps, connections between new ideas you
didn't realize were connected. The diffuse mode has another purpose
as well, it's the mode we fall into when we're trying to consolidate and
understand new information. We'll get to that in just a minute,
the diffuse mode only turns on when you aren't thinking
about anything in particular. So you can't just concentrate and turn
it on like you can with the focused mode. But the relaxed, diffuse mode, is the mode
that often does that background processing that helps us solve difficult problems and
understand difficult concepts. This is why, when you're concentrating
intently on something, and you find yourself getting really
frustrated, the best thing you can do is often to get your concentration off
what you're trying to understand. Getting your attention off the topic
helps open up the very different diffuse mode networks, and
lets your brain find new paths for thinking about what you're
trying to understand. Then, when you later return to focusing, you'll find yourself in a better place,
mentally. The problem or the concept will
suddenly start to make sense. Incidentally, the habit of writing down a
problem that you're trying to solve before going to bed will help
you calm your mind and let your nighttime brain
think of a solution. There's actually another, very different
way, to think about focused and diffuse modes and that's using
something called an excavator. When you focus on something, your mind is in receiving mode,
information is pouring in. When you're in diffuse mode, on the other
hand, your brain is turning around, so to speak, and placing that new
information in other parts of your brain. Organizing and
making sense of the new material, you can only be in one
mode at the same time. The inputting focused mode or
the organizing, diffuse mode, where the brain is
consolidating that information. This is why it's really important
to take little study breaks, and give yourself time where you're not
focusing on the material at hand. The little break is what helps the brain
consolidate the new information so it can later think more
creatively about it. Go ahead, take a little break now, try
to move around a little while you do it. You'll be surprised at how
much it refreshes you. [MUSIC]