I love reading history and being inspired by the biographies of
extraordinary people. One of the most unusual people I've ever
read about, is inspiring not only because he
was so extraordinary. But also, because he was so ordinary. Santiago Ramón y Cajal was a born
troublemaker. In rural Spain of the 1860s, there weren't many options for oddball juvenile
delinquents. So that's how at 11 years old, Cajal found
himself in jail. Cajal was stubborn and rebellious. Who knew that Santiago Ramón y Cajal would
one day not only earn the Nobel Prize, but eventually become known
as the Father of Modern Neuroscience? Cajal was already in his early 20s when he
began climbing from bad boy delinquency into the
traditional study of medicine. There's evidence that myelin sheaths. The fatty insulation that helps signals
move more quickly along a neuron, don't finish developing in some
people until they're in their twenties. This may explain why teenagers often have trouble controlling their impulsive
behavior. The wiring between the intention and the
control areas of the brain isn't completely
formed. When you use neural circuits however, it
seems you help build the myelin sheath over
them. Not to mention making many other
microscopic changes. Practice appears to strengthen and
reinforce connections between different brain
regions, creating highways between the brain's control
centers and the centers that store knowledge. In Cajal's case, it seems his natural
maturation processes coupled with his own efforts to develop his thinking, helped
him to take control of his overall behavior. It seems people can enhance the
development of their neuronal circuits by practicing thoughts
that use those neurons. We're still in the infancy of
understanding neural development. One thing is becoming clear, we can make
significant changes in our brain by changing how we
think. Cajal met and worked with many brilliant
scientists through his lifetime. People who were often far smarter than he. In Cajal's autobiography however, he
pointed out that although brilliant people can do exceptional work, just like anyone
else they can also be careless and biased. Cajal felt the key to his own success was
his perseverance. What he called the virtue of the less
brilliant, coupled with his flexible ability to change his
mind and admit errors. Anyone, Cajal noted, even people with
average intelligence, can change their own brains so that even the least gifted
can produce an abundant harvest. People like Charles Darwin, whose theory
of evolution has made him one of the most influential figures in human history, are
often thought of as these, sort of, natural
geniuses. You may be surprised to learn that much like Cajal, Darwin was a poor student in
school. He washed out of medical school and ended
up, to his father's horror, heading out on a round the world
voyage as the ship's naturalist. Out on his own, Darwin was able to look with fresh eyes at the data he was
collecting. Approaching material with a goal of
learning it on your own, can give you a unique path to
mastery. Often no matter how good your teacher and
textbook are, it's only when you sneak off and look at other books or videos that
you begin to see what you learn through a single teacher, or book, is a partial version of the full three
dimensional reality of the subject, which has links to still other fascinating topics that are of
your choosing. Taking responsibility for your own
learning is one of the most important things you can do. Santiago Ram贸n y Cajal had a deep
understanding, not only of how to conduct science but also of how people
just interact with one another. He warned fellow learners that there will
always be those who criticize or attempt to undermine any
effort or achievement you make. This happens to everybody. Not just Nobel Prize winners. If you do well in your studies, the people
around you can feel threatened. The greater your achievement, the more
other people will sometimes attack and demean
your efforts. On the other hand, if you flunk a test,
you also may encounter critics who throw more barbs,
saying you don't have what it takes. We're often told that empathy is
universally beneficial. But it's not. It's important to learn to switch on an
occasional cool dispassion that helps you to not only focus on what you're trying to
learn, but also to tune people out if you discover that their interests lie in undercutting you
such undercutting is all too common, as people are often just as competitive as they are
cooperative. When you're a young person, mastering such
dispassion can be difficult. We're naturally excited about what we're
working on, and we like to believe that everyone can be reasoned with and then, almost everyone is naturally good hearted
towards us. Like Santiago Ram贸n y Cajal, you can take
pride in aiming for success. Because of the very things that make other
people say you can't do it. Take pride in who you are. Especially, in the qualities that make you
different. And use them as a secret talisman for
success. Use your natural contrariness to defy
the always present prejudices from others about what
you can accomplish. I'm Barbara Oakley. Thanks for learning about learning