[MUSIC] You maybe surprised to learn that some of
your worst traits can sometimes be some of your best traits. This means that when you get down
on yourself for some of your bad characteristics, it's a good idea
to start reframing your thinking. In this video, we'll help you get started. Let's take for our first example
having a poor working memory. As we've already mentioned, having a poor working memory often
indicates that you're more creative. When something falls out of
the slots of your working memory, something else tends to pop in. Do you have to work harder to keep up with
people who have that steel trap sort of memory? Sure, but you wouldn't want to give up the joyful
advantages that your creativity gives you. And of course,
people with less capable working memories are more likely to see short cuts and
to have conceptual breakthroughs. Poor working memory incidentally
is often correlated with Attention Deficit Disorder. So if this condition is making
your learning tougher for you, it's important to realize
it also gives you advantages. You may argue that a strong working memory
not only helps with problem solving, it also helps with getting good grades but
research has shown that there's a counter correlation between
school grades and creativity. In other words, sometimes the better
your grades, the worse your creativity. For some reason my fellow professors
who were usually the best of the best students seem to get annoyed with me
when I bring up that little factoid. Maybe that's also the origin
of the old saying, the A students end up working for
the C students. But there's also a correlation between
disagreeableness and creativity. It may simply be that disagreeable
people are more willing to be brats, to throw aside that compliant deferential
behavior of their more agreeable peers. Are you a contrarian? That too can serve as an advantage
when everyone's telling you you just can't succeed,
you're contrarian nature combined with a little bit of common sense can be
just the ticket to prove them wrong. What about being a worrier? Well, as a worrier myself, I'll be the first to admit that worrying
has got some unhealthy aspects to it. But anxiety can allow you to
anticipate possibilities by mentally reviewing different
scenarios even if they're negative. And that's not all bad. Doing a bit of worrying and then reframing
your thoughts to calm your brain in the ways we've discussed
earlier is a great way to go. And how about being a naive dreamer? If you're naive,
it's a nice idea to partner and work with more practical people. But a little bit of naive dreaming
helps keep the world moving forward on a positive note. No one would want to give that up. Based on all of this, what seemingly bad characteristic do you
have that might have a good side to them? Join the discussion forum and
let other people know and see what intriguing
traits other people have. [MUSIC]