[MUSIC] We hear a lot nowadays about
meditation and mindfulness. So inquiring minds often want to know what
effect meditation can have on learning. First, let's back up a step. What is meditation? It's really just a way of bringing
about different modes of consciousness using a variety of different techniques. For example, meditators may close
their eyes and repeat a mantra, control their breathing, or deliberately
cultivate a certain emotional state. Scientific research on meditation
is still in it's infancy. But researchers can sometimes
classify meditation techniques into two different types that seem to be
fundamentally different [SOUND]. Focused attention and open monitoring. Given what we've learned already, my guess
that these two types of meditation relate to the two different types of basic modes
of the brain uses to perceive the world, focused and diffuse. And you'd be right. Focused attention types of meditations
such as mantra, sound or chakra meditation appear to help
enhance focus mode type thinking, this kind of meditation sometimes
seems to make people feel better. It can help reduce
feelings of depression and anxiety, even while it builds
concentration abilities. In contrast, open monitoring types
of meditation such as, vipassana and mindfulness, appear to improve
diffuse imaginative thinking. With open monitoring,
we don't just focus on one thing. Instead we keep our attention open to all
aspects of experience without judging or becoming attached to our thoughts. Now we know that diffuse mode
thinking is more wide ranging, your thoughts [SOUND] can
bounce pretty much anywhere. Daydreaming happens in the diffuse mode,
daydreaming not only gives rise to more random thoughts and
connections that underpin creativity. It also helps you plan for
the future, since your thoughts tend to wander towards what the
future might bring, sounds great, right? Well, not entirely. The diffuse mode is also affiliated
with anxiety and depression. Think about it this way. If your mind is bouncing
all over the place, it can get drawn into worry [SOUND] about,
whoa, things that might go wrong. [LAUGH] Part of the reason that building
your focusing abilities may help make you feel happier is that it appears to suppress the diffuse
mode, while it builds the focusing mode. So what does all this mean? It means that meditation can have
surprisingly different effects, depending on the type. It's all very complex, and researchers
are far from sorting everything out yet. In the end, practices that
encourage focusing can be a great benefit for learning. But having some daily time where
your mind relaxes and wanders freely is also very important, particularly
if you want to encourage creativity. From a practical standpoint then if
you are a meditator you might try to avoid feeling you should always be
steering your thoughts back into focus if you catch your mind wandering
outside meditation sessions. This might be why people find
the pomodoro technique so useful for combining creativity with productivity. It's a sort of working meditation. Up next, we'll look at some of the deeper aspects of the pomodoro technique. [MUSIC]