[MUSIC] There are very good reasons to always
keep learning throughout your life. We know that there are some 1,400
new neurons that are born everyday in your hippocampus. You can see your brain's
hippocampus in red right here. While this image here is
actually of a growing neuron. You can see the expansion and
the new linkages as it's growing. There's only a modest decline in
your neural birth rate as you age. But unless your brain continues
to encounter new experiences, which often means learning something new,
your new neurons will die off before they mature and
hook into that larger neural network. They're kind of like vines that languish
and die because there's no trellis. In adults,
new neurons allow us to distinguish between similar experiences and
store them as distinct memories. This means that for new learning,
as well as for mental health, it's important to help new neurons
be born, survive, and thrive. Of course, we know that physical
exercise is one of the most powerful medications we know of that
helps produce new neurons. It's as if exercise scatters these sorts
of seeds that become neural sprouts. Learning is like water and fertilizer that encourages the growth
of those new neural sprouts. The younger you are, the more likely it
is that anything you experience is new. As you age it gets easier
to fall into a rut. Even when you tell yourself you
are learning something new, it's often just a slight riff
on something you already know. Learning that makes an impact on
the brain often means going just a bit beyond your comfort zone. A useful way to allow new neurons
to survive, thrive, and make those new connections is to do something
truly new and different every day. This automatically presents your
brain with novel experiences. These novel experiences
can be as simple as using your left hand to brush your
teeth if you're right handed, or just sitting in a different
chair at the dinner table. This is also why travel can be so
incredibly invigorating. It helps keep the brain tuned up,
especially if you do your best to immerse yourself in the new culture and
surroundings. Learning a foreign language when you're
older may be especially worthwhile, because the areas of the brain that are
positively affected by language learning include many of the areas that
are negatively affected by aging. In brain terms if you don't use it,
you can lose it, no matter how innate and
natural your gifts may seem. Widely admired orator
Robert Sobukwe who spoke so eloquently for the cause of liberation
of black South Africans from the rule of apartheid was subjected to six
years of solitary confinement in the same prison that housed
Nelson Mandela on remote Robben Island. He could communicate with other prisoners
only through furtive hand signals. During this terrible time Sobukwe could
feel his powers of speech slipping away. Those who've spent extended periods
at isolated locations with few opportunities to speak with others
often find themselves stumbling through simple conversations upon
their return to civilization. My husband Phil experienced this when
he spent a year at remote Siple Station in Antarctica. Hobbies can also help keep
us mentally tuned up, especially when those activities
are combined with physical exercise. If you knit, sew, quilt,
do plumbing or carpentry, play games, use your computer or read, for example, research shows you're more likely to have
stronger cognitive ability as you age. These findings make sense. For example, measuring and cutting for either quilting or carpentry clearly
help maintain your spatial abilities. There's also evidence that the more
you keep up a learning lifestyle, especially as you grow older,
the lower your long-term risk of devastating illnesses
like Alzheimer's disease. Exercise, learning, and exposure to
new environments can help create and nurture new neurons and synapses. These new synapses and neurons create
what's called a cognitive reserve. When some synapses and neurons naturally
disappear as part of the aging process, you've got others waiting in the wings
that can take over the neural pathways and maintain your mental abilities. Researchers are uncovering new ways
to help our brains maintain their youthful flexibility even as we age. You might be surprised to hear that action
videos can actually be really helpful here. Eventually we may well see video
games being prescribed by doctors. [SOUND] [MUSIC]