[MUSIC] Wherever you are in your career path,
whether young, mid-career, or even in retirement,
it can help to keep your eye on the big picture of societal trends
in relation to your special skills. When I was young I followed my
passion into a box of having a single special skill,
the ability to speak a second language. I didn't think or
plan to complement that ability with other skills that could give me more
flexibility in the job marketplace. We know that language and
culture are important. But in today's society,
technological, scientific, and mathematical literacy and expertise
are of increasing importance, as well. So if you have a soft-skill
area of interest, it can be a good idea to balance that
with some technical or analytical skills. But likewise, if you already
have sharp analytical skills, it can be a good idea to
enhance your talent stack by working on your soft skills such
as speaking ability or writing. On a side note, I wish I had a dollar for
every older student I've had in my engineering classes, who like me,
followed their passion, and spent a lot of money to get a first degree in a subject
that was difficult to get a good job at. I'm not saying engineering is the only
field to study, although I will admit to a little bias for engineering as good
general training in today's society. But be aware how easy it
can be during the career selection process to fall into
a [SOUND] sheeple mentality. Where you and your friends don't find out until it's too
late that you've put yourself into decades of debt studying a favorite subject that's
better off as a hobby than as a career. What if you get fired or
laid off from a job? A valuable point to keep in
mind here is what I'll call, the golden rule of career catastrophes. And that is, it is never as bad as
you think it is at the time and there is always a silver lining. [SOUND] Almost always as a result
of being either fired or laid off, you ultimately find yourself
happier in the long run. Even Pete Best, who was kicked out
of the great band The Beatles, right before they went on to world fame, was able to find a wonderful silver
lining in his career catastrophe. After his ousting from the band, he would go on to meet his wife,
the great love of his life. Keep in mind that it's not usually
a good idea to become too settled for too many years doing the same job. You can slip into a career rut that
can be difficult to get out of. Even if you're doing
a variety of activities for your work, your mind can still be
following into the route or rut. Which means it can gently be
moving towards stagnation. In any case, you may think you
have the perfect career, but things can change in a heartbeat. One simple swap in management
can mean an upheaval. Even great scientists like Francis Crick, the Nobel Prize winning
co-discoverer of DNA made a point of changing his area of focus to
keep himself fresh as he grew older. At age 60 he switched from
the study of molecular biology to the study of consciousness. This is something like spending your life
as a construction worker and then deciding you're going to switch to become
an expert in creating great embroidery. The result, Crick's lively
intellect retained its sharp ability to focus until his dying day. [MUSIC]