[MUSIC] So I have to tell you about
a former student of mine. He came up, stuck out a red marked
quiz that he just flunked and he said, I just don't see how I could have done so
poorly. I understood it when
you taught it in class. Here's the problem. In Western education, at least,
we've gotten so wedded to the idea that conceptual understanding is the golden
key to learning, that we've ignored the fact that practice and repetition
is an equally vital aspect of learning. It's that repeated banging away at it
that ultimately can structure knowledge. Students themselves, including my former student,
are fooled about how to learn effectively. In the past, for thousands of years
the only way people thought learning happened was through memorization. People showed their learning mostly by
just regurgitating what they'd memorized. Now, it's not like this
didn't work at all. Otherwise, we'd never have
the wonderful advances in the arts and sciences that we've seen
in the last millennia. But of course,
memorization isn't everything in learning. As a reaction to that extreme sort of
learning equals memorization idea, in the last 100 years or so, a new approach has gradually arisen
in Western ways of teaching. This approach says that
conceptual understanding, not rote learning or memorization,
is the key to learning. But in the West, at least, we've now gone
off on to the other end of the extreme. We've gone so far overboard in emphasizing
the unique importance of conceptual understanding that we've lost sight of the
fact that some memorization in practice, especially deliberate practice
that focuses on the hardest parts of the material,
is also important in any kind of learning. In fact, practice and repetition,
not to mention memorization, don't just reinforce your understanding,
they can actually lead to a deeper and richer understanding, as this paper shows. Poets often say, memorize the poem and
you will understand it more deeply. But why should we in other disciplines
let only the poets have all the fun? Memorizing an equation, for example, can help you understand that equation
more deeply, especially if you're trying to understand what's going on with
that equation as you're memorizing it. Unfortunately, you'll sometimes
hear even advanced educators and educational psychologists in the West
saying, it doesn't matter, you can always look it up, in regards many forms of
learning, especially in math and science. But that's really not true. Would you know the French language,
for example, if you had to go look words up
every time you needed them? Would you know how to properly design
an engine if you hadn't spent time memorizing some of the equations, or at least working enough with them such
that they flowed fluently in your mind? Would you really want your doctor to
breeze through medical school without memorizing any of the hundreds of
thousands of facts doctors are typically asked to memorize during
their preparatory studies? Psychologist Anders Ericsson's work
has shown that all expertise develops through building strong,
well practiced mental representations. That is, large libraries of
solidly built neural chunks that can be easily drawn
into working memory. The main point of this video is that
practice, including some memorization, can help you to chunk key ideas and procedures, a vitally
important part of learning. Remember how when you're first
trying to figure something out, the working memory of your prefrontal
cortex is going a little crazy? Of course, once you've got that concept
chunked, that is, understood and practiced, you basically have
the equivalent of a nice, smooth ribbon that you can easily bring
into working memory whenever you need to, leaving the other slots of working
memory free to process other related chunks to hook them together
to form more advanced thoughts. This is a key idea. If you want to see true procedural
fluency, that is brilliantly chunked expertise in action, take a look at Mr.
Kazuyuki Takayanagi, the president of Soroban Kyoshitsu USA,
which is actually located in Japan, as he works with two young children
who are learning to add numbers incredibly quickly in their
heads using a technique called Flash Anzan It's almost impossible to believe
that anyone could add that fast, much less young children,
but add they can. What this means is that the rhythms of
quickly practicing addition have formed fundamental neural structures that these
children can access rapidly, easily, and largely subconsciously, which means
that their conscious working memory can be working on more advanced ideas that
build on the simpler ideas of addition. Some children can actually play
verbal games while they're doing Flash Anzan because the verbal processing uses
a different part of the brain. I sometimes have students come to me
saying they suffer from test anxiety. Test anxiety does exist. I suffer from it myself. But after decades of teaching,
I've come to realize that those who claim test anxiety often
simply haven't studied well. Of course they feel anxious when
they sit down to do a test. It's just that they haven't
studied the material. Only when the test is put in front of them
do they look deeply enough to realize that they didn't understand it,
it's too late, and they panic. So remember, conceptual understanding
is important, but equally important is practice and repetition enhanced
by a healthy dose of memorization. I'm Barbara Oakley, happy Mindshift. [MUSIC]